bruce g. clarke, a retired four-star general who was the army commander-in-chief in europe when berlin was the focal point of the cold war between the united states and the soviet union, has died. he was 86
clarke, who died thursday at walter reed army hospital, had suffered a stroke
the mclean, va. resident was born in adams, n.y. he was graduated from the u.s. military academy at west point, n.y. in 1925, and he later received a master's degree in civil engineering from cornell university and a law degree from la salle extension university
during world war ii, he commanded the combat command a in the 4th armored division and later commanded the division. during the korean war, he commanded the u.s. i corps and later the x corps of the far east command
later, he commanded the u.s. army in the pacific, the u.s. 7th army in europe and the continental army command at fort monroe, va
he was commander-in-chief of the army in europe from 1960 to 1962 and was credited with keeping his troops in a high state of training and morale while supervising patrols of air and ground routes to berlin
clarke devoted himself to army affairs after retiring in 1962, writing frequently on matters such as training and command and making an inspection of vietnam in 1968
his wife, the former bessie mitchell, died in 1956
he is survived by three sons _ bruce c. clarke jr. of st. anton a.d. jessnitz, austria; dr. david a. clarke of colorado springs, colo.; and army col. gordon m. clarke of san antonio, texas _ a daughter, mrs. elisabeth clark of leesburg, va.; two sisters, mary griffin of adams and frances saternow of oswego, n.y.; 18 grandchildren and five great-grandchildren
a six-year study of the largest population ever contaminated by the toxic chemical dioxin found no apparent increase in birth defects
the study, published in friday's journal of the american medical association, focused on babies born in and around seveso, italy, from 1977 through 1982
a 1976 chemical accident ata factory in the area released a cloud of dioxin that contaminated more than 37,200 residents in seveso and the neighboring towns of meda, cesano maderno and desio
the study said that if there is any increased risk related to dioxin, ``the overall risk is unlikely to be large or might be limited to very rare and specific birth defects.''
still more important,'' the study concluded, ``is the fact that no infant with a major malformation was identified in the most highly contaminated zone.''
dioxin, a byproduct of pesticide manufacture, causes cancer in laboratory animals. it has not been directly linked to cancers in humans
in the italian study, doctors considered as defects only those congenital malformations obvious at birth. congenital problems that manifest themselves later in life, such as mental retardation, were not considered
the seveso congenital malformations registry, established shortly after the accident, found that in 15,291 births, 742 infants were born with deformities, a rate of 48.5 per 1,000
the prevalence of deformities over the same period in a nearby uncontaminated area used as a control was 48.8 per 1,000 births, the study found
the quantity of dioxin released into the environment ``seemed to be enormous'' but was never precisely determined, according to the study
levels of dioxin concentration found on the ground in the area surrounding the factory were nearly 1,000 times higher than the levels termed safe by state and federal officials after a cleanup at times beach, mo
times beach is now deserted and hundreds of families have filed lawsuits against companies and individuals over their exposure to dioxin contained in waste oil sprayed on their streets to control dust in the 1970s
questions about the effects of exposure to dioxin have lingered since the vietnam war. dioxin is in agent orange, a defoliant used during the war
some veterans have sought government compensation, contending their exposure resulted in cancers, rashes, headaches and other side effects, as well as birth defects in their children
the veterans administration has contended numerous studies have found no link between exposure and reported symptoms. honduras, u.s. activity at air base. picks up 4th graf pvs, two battalions ...; subs grafs 23-24, ``the u.s. official ... with 2 grafs to conform.</note>
planeloads of u.s. soldiers streamed into this air base thursday in a show of strength ordered by president reagan to counter what he called an invasion by nicaraguan forces
in northern nicaragua, warplanes dropped bombs near a sandinista military headquarters thursday, but no casualties or damage resulted. reporters at the scene said the explosives fell on the honduran side of the border
nicaragua and a u.s. official said earlier that the raid was aimed at the military post
the american troops were to engage in joint exercises with the hondurans. but the u.s. airlift was so hastily arranged that american commanders were left scrambling to develop training exercises to keep the men busy
hundreds of soldiers bedded down in dusty fields near the airstrip awaiting orders for training missions which normally are arranged months in advance
the american troops were told to expect to spend about 10 days in honduras, but spokesmen said there was no official timetable yet for them to leave
two battalions from the renowned 82nd airborne division of fort bragg, n.c., and two battalions from the 7th light infantry division of fort ord, calif., were combined into a task force of 3,000 troops
a honduran official said his government had given the sandinistas 24 hours to get out of the country, which they entered in pursuit of contra rebels
president daniel ortega of nicaragua responded that his army was ``ready to combat and liquidate the famous forces of the 82nd airborne division.''
maj. gen. carl w. stiner, commander of the 82nd airborne, said he knew of no plan to have u.s. troops enter into the battle between the sandinistas and the u.s.-backed -contras
we have not been told to do so,'' he said before leaving fort bragg. he said the force was capable of that, if needed
stiner also said there was no plan to use the troops if more trouble broke out in nearby panama
the american forces began arriving at palmerola at 10:15 a.m. as part of what the pentagon called operation ``golden pheasant.''
the 26 c-141 transport planes landed in the intense heat at 30-minute intervals at this air base, headquarters of u.s. military operations in honduras, 40 miles northwest of tegucigalpa
the deployment was about 125 miles west of the area where reagan administration officials say the nicaraguan sandinista army has chased rebel contra forces over the border into honduras
col. manuel suarez benavides, a honduran armed forces spokesman, said the deadline for the sandinistas to leave was final
he said 2,000 nicaraguan soldiers had crossed the border and penetrated about six miles in pursuit of contra rebels. a military intelligence source said earlier the nicaraguans were surrounded by about 4,000 honduran troopers
suarez benavides would not comment on pentagon reports of new nicaraguan attacks inside honduras
the sandinista movements did not appear to be a full-fledged invasion, stiner said, adding that he saw the u.s. operation as a deterrent
ortega would not say whether his soldiers had crossed the border in pursuit of the u.s.-supported rebels
here the question is not if army troops penetrated honduran territory or not, but that we have dozens of camps of mercenary forces in honduran territory, in view of and tolerated by the honduran government,'' he said at a news conference in managua
he said nicaraguan soldiers would not withdraw from the border area. ortega called the u.s. troop deployment ``a dangerous act'' and demanded a meeting of the u.n. security council
a spokesman for the nicaraguan foreign ministry said before the news conference that nicaragua had begun pulling its troops back from the frontier region after driving about 2,000 contra rebels back into honduras. the defense and foreign ministries denied that nicaraguan troops entered honduras
nicaraguan presidential spokesman manuel espinoza enriquez later said that air attackers fired at least five rockets thursday at the nicaraguan military headquarters at bocay, near the honduras border. sandinista gunfire forced the planes to turn back, he said
reporters saw two planes entering nicaraguan air space from honduras. they saw nothing to support a report from a u.s. official in washington that a soviet-built helicopter had been destroyed
manuel suarez, a honduran spokesman in tegucigalpa, denied the honduran air force crossed the border, and said it dropped at least five bombs inside honduras along the border near bocay
heavy fighting was reported wednesday in the olancho border province about 125 miles east of palmerola
included in the american forces are two battalions from the 82nd airborne and two from a new division organized for quick movement around the world. the 82nd airborne and 7th light infantry are based at opposite ends of the country
the final 800 u.s. troops are to arrive friday by parachute, weather permitting
in addition to the c-141 aircraft, a giant c-5a transport was loaded with helicopter gunships for the exercise
the honduran intelligence source, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said: ``we will not allow the sandinistas to move farther into the interior of our territory. we want to avoid a large conflict, but if it isn't possible, we will have to face the invading troops.''
secretary of state george p. shultz said in washington the soldiers were being sent to ``get people's attention to what is happening in central america'' and say to the honduran government: ``we are your friends.''
white house spokesman marlin fitzwater said the complete deployment would take about 27 hours. the defense department said nine helicopters and two light tanks were also sent
it was the the most dramatic show of u.s. force since the contras began fighting in nicaragua six years ago, and it came in response to a request for help from president jose azcona hoyo of honduras
since 1981, honduras has been a key u.s. ally in central america and a major element in reagan administration policy of fighting nicaragua's leftist government
about 1,100 american soldiers normally are stationed at several military installations in honduras. in addition, other national guard and army troops rotate through for joint exercises, road-building and other projects. protest. picks up 9th graf pvs, `at fort ...'</note>
protesters flattened police barricades thursday in san francisco and spray-painted slogans against the sending of troops to honduras, while demonstrators stopped traffic in minneapolis and marched in boston and philadelphia
about 25 people were arrested in san francisco in one of several protests in california. at fort ord, wives of some of the soldiers sent to honduras were among protesters at the gates. about 100 people demonstrated in santa rosa
in minneapolis, 400 people dragged newspaper racks and benches into a busy street, bringing traffic to a halt during the afternoon rush hour
in boston, 200 people marched in a circle and chanted ``u.s. troops out of honduras'' outside the john f. kennedy federal building. police said six people remained inside after closing but were evicted without incident
protesters in philadelphia erected a 30-foot ``central america war memorial'' that mimicked the vietnam memorial in the nation's capital. it bore the names of central americans killed in the region's civil wars. about 200 people marched in front of the federal courthouse
in san francisco, 500 demonstrators outside the federal building knocked down police barriers and chanted slogans
a few protesters linked arms and sat down, blocking the entrance to the building. general services administration spokeswoman mary filippini said 25 people were cited for obstructing the entrance and creating a disturbance
later thursday, up to 2,000 demonstrators gathered at the building. about 100 pounded on the windows as the crowd chanted, ``no more contra aid.'' a few spray-painted slogans on the locked building. no further arrests were made
at fort ord, where 1,200 soldiers of the 7th light infantry were ordered to honduras, the demonstrators included the wives of some soldiers who were shipped out from the base 90 miles south of san francisco
a pregnant renee worthing, 21, wife of soldier james worthing, carried a sign that said, ``stop the lies.''
i think the whole thing has just been a lie,'' she said. ``i also think it has something to do with the presidential elections because every time a presidential election comes up, a crisis comes up and the president runs to the rescue. the community is not going to stand for this.''
churches were given increased protection from libel suits in matters of religious doctrine thursday when california's supreme court refused to reinstate a $1.26 million verdict
the high court, in a 5-2 vote, refused to hear an appeal by a woman who sued the worldwide church of god after a minister proclaimed her ``one of the enemies of god's church.''
the court's action returns the case to los angeles superior court for a retrial based on a new legal standard: whether the minister knew his statements were false, or spoke in reckless disregard of whether they were false
that standard already applied to libel suits filed by public figures and government officials against newspapers and other news media
in a precedent-setting decision that now has statewide effect, a lower appeals court said the freedom of religion requires the same constitutional protections to churches and their officials when discussing religious doctrine
the suit was filed by leona mcnair of pasadena, former wife of raymond mcnair, deputy chancellor of the church-run ambassador college
she was a prominent church member who later became associated with a dissident faction and was divorced by mcnair in 1976 after 20 years of marriage
the court said their divorce and mcnair's remarriage the next year prompted criticism within the church, which recognizes divorce in only a few instances
in a 1979 speech to about 1,000 people at the church's annual meeting in tucson, ariz., roderick meredith, the church's director of pastoral administration, sought to explain why the mcnair divorce was justified by ``desertion by an unconverted mate,'' one of(the grounds recognized by the church
mrs. mcnair, he said, ``had left the church and was virtually cursing (mcnair) ... spitting literally in people's faces and as hateful as a human being can be.''
she departed so far that she is one of the major enemies of god's church in southern california,''he said
meredith returned to the subject several months later in a written report, repeating some of his previous accusations and saying mrs. mcnair had ``refused to be a wife to (mcnair) for over two years'' before the divorce
in the suit against the church, meredith, mcnair and others, a jury found that the statements were false, and that the pastor's report had caused mrs. mcnair extreme emotional distress
the appeals court overturned the verdict because jury was not asked to find that the statements were intentionally or recklessly false
the right to free exercise of religion is a constitutional guarantee of equal significance'' to freedom of the press, the appeals court said, adding that meredith's remarks, however personal, ``were made while he was explaining church doctrine'' on divorce
a missile attack on a tanker in the persian gulf early friday set the ship on fire, killed one sailor and critically injured three, shipping executives and hospital officials said
iran was suspected in the attack on the 4,127-ton maria ii, which flies the panamanian flag
as many as 19 korean crewmembers who had jumped off the vessel, which was laden with highly explosive liquefied gas, were plucked from the water and from lifeboats by salvage tugboats, the executives said
hospital officials identified the dead man as a japanese citizen
the tanker was sighted on fire just after midnight in the southern gulf, about 10 miles from the port of dubai, said the sources, who spoke on condition of anonymity
they said the fire was put out after about 90 minutes and that it was apparently the result of an iranian attack, although they were unsure whether it was from air or sea
three salvage tugboats that rushed to fight the blaze reported a hole on the starboard side, indicating the vessel had been hit by a missile
the executives said the dead man's body was found floating in the water
the survivors were taken to dubai's al-rashid hospital, where officials said three were in critical condition and six were being treated for less serious injuries. they said the rest had suffered minor bruises and were treated and released
one hospital official quoted the survivors as saying they had ``thrown themselves overboard once the ship was bombed.'' he said they were not sure what had struck the ship
iran usually attacks commercial ships in the southern gulf in retaliation for iraqi strikes on its own tanker lanes. the two belligerents, at war since september 1980, have concentrated in recent weeks on attacking each others cities
there had been a lull in the so-called tanker war, except for two confirmed iraqi strikes this month. iranian retaliation is usually on a ship-for-ship basis. more than 400 ships of different nationalities have been hit or damaged by both sides
the destination of the ship was not immediately known, nor where it had picked up the shipment
the city agreed thursday to restrict police in their search for a sexual-assault suspect after the police department was accused in an aclu suit of detaining hundreds of black men without cause
the agreement, signed by city attorneys and the american civil liberties union, prohibits officers from detaining anyone merely because he matches the race or age of the man suspected of attacking eight women in the past five weeks
however, the agreement allows police to stop anyone to seek their voluntary cooperation in the investigation
a similar dispute involving a police department dragnet in an hispanic neighborhood ended with the city paying a $45,000 settlement to about 80 people in 1985
barry steinhardt, executive director of the aclu in pennsylvania, applauded the agreement, saying police commissioner kevin tucker recognized that the investigation ``should not become the occasion for the random mass questioning of black philadelphians.''
in the suit filed earlier thursday, the aclu sought a federal court injunction to prevent police ``from stopping, frisking, questioning and detaining'' black men in the search for the so-called center city stalker
the suit, filed on behalf of two men, charges that several hundred men were questioned without probable cause
attorneys for the aclu and deputy city soliciter ralph teti met thursday with u.s. district judge james mcgirr kelly, who approved the agreement
aclu legal director stefan presser said: ``we do believe that a large number of people were illegally detained and we will now pursue the question of damages.''
teti could not be reached for comment thursday night
earlier in the day, the police commissioner defended the conduct of the police
obviously, our feeling is we have a composite (sketch) and we feel we're following proper guidelines,'' tucker said. ``if the courts think we're doing things differently, then we will abide by their ruling.''
the center city stalker has generally approached victims leaving an elevator an empty hall. with a gun, he has directed victims into an empty room, robbed them, tied their hands hands and ankles and sexually assaulted them
the attacks have created fear among women in downtown office buildings, leading to an increase in the sale of chemical mace
in 1985, police questioned 125 hispanics after a police officer was shot to death in his patrol car in an hispanic neighborhood
a federal judge ordered the department to stop the ``disgraceful activities'' and ``unlawful conduct'' in rounding up hispanics indiscriminately, and the city later agreed to a monetary settlement
women who smoke half a pack of cigarettes a day are twice as likely to have a stroke as women who have never smoked and those who smoke two packs a day have six times the risk of a stroke, researchers say
their study, presented thursday at a meeting of the american heart association, is the first to show a conclusive link between smoking and strokes in women, said the study's principal author, dr. graham colditz of the harvard university school of medicine in boston
taken in conjunction with the results for men, this clearly implicates cigarette smoking as a risk factor for strokes in women,'' colditz said
before 1984 smoking was not considered a risk factor for strokes in men or women. in 1984, however, the american heart association listed cigarette smoking as a possible risk factor for strokes
little has been known about the effect of smoking on strokes in women, however. earlier less definitive studies had suggested it increased the risk, some had found no effect and one had found that smoking decreased the risk, colditz said
heart disease and stroke have been studied less extensively in women than in men, possibly because those diseases are less common in women than men. but heart disease and stroke, taken together, are the leading cause of death in women _ as they are in men
the heart association estimates that 500,000 americans have strokes each year. in 1985, the latest year for which figures are available, 152,700 americans died from strokes
colditz said his results are more convincing than those of previous studies largely because of the number of subjects in his study _ almost 120,000. they are nurses who were recruited in 1976 for a huge study attempting to correlate various aspects of diet, health, family history and such things as height and weight with the occurrence of disease
in a separate finding reported thursday, analysis of the nurses' drinking habits showed that even modest amounts of alcohol can lower the risk of coronary heart disease, marked by clogging of the coronary arteries that supply blood to the heart
this effect has been observed in men, but it has not been as thoroughly studied in women
a couple of drinks a week is enough to lower the risk,'' colditz said
meir stampfer of harvard, the principal author of the alcohol study, said analysis of the alcohol intake of 87,566 of the nurses showed that as little as two drinks a week could lower the risk of coronary heart disease by 40 percent
there is a catch, however. alcohol has been shown to raise the incidence of cancer _ and that effect begins to occur with the consumption of three drinks a week, colditz said
most authorities believe that the question of alcohol's effect on health has not been answered well enough yet for them to recommend that people drink moderately
alcohol's hazards are well known, and public health officials worry that some people might conclude, for example, that if two drinks are good, four drinks are better
the army's 15,000-soldier 82nd airborne division is a troubleshooting unit for handling hot spots around the world
the division is used as kind of a fire department _ a unit that can move quickly into an emergency, bring with it the tools and techniques to put out fires and restore order,'' military writer hans halberstabt said in his 1988 book, ``airborne: assault from the sky.''
here's a brief history of the 82nd airborne division:
_ 1917: the 82nd is activated at camp gordon, ga., but discontinued in 1919
_ 1942: the 82nd is reactivated under gen. omar bradley at camp claiborne, la. the first airborne unit is trained here in preparation for combat. all five combat airborne divisions, the 82nd, 101st, 11th, 13th and 17th, are trained in the fort bragg-camp mccall area
_ 1943: the division is deployed to north africa
_ july 9, 1943: paratroopers from the 82nd airborne division make their first jump in sicily
_ june 6, 1944: paratroopers from the division, along with the 101st division, lead the charge in the invasion at normandy
_ 1944: the 82nd paratroopers participate in the battle of the bulge
_ 1945: division ordered to berlin for occupation duty
_ 1946: 82nd returns to the united states and is assigned to fort bragg, n.c
_ 1965: division deployed to santa domingo in the dominican republic to evacuate americans
_ 1968-1970: division's 3rd brigade sent to vietnam
_ 1983: two brigades of 82nd airborne division sent to grenada to rescue american medical students
the deadly earthquake that shook the los angeles area in october led scientists to accept a theory that says the region is more prone to damaging jolts than once believed
a study of the quake, published today in the journal science, concludes buried faults hidden by folds in earth's crust present ``additional potential earthquake hazards to the los angeles metropolitan area.''
the theory by consulting geologist thom davis was publicized in november when scientists met to discuss the oct. 1 whittier narrows quake, which measured 5.9 on the richter scale. with its aftershocks, it caused eight deaths, more than 200 injuries and $358 million in damage
the new study, in which 17 scientists joined davis as co-authors, says the hidden fault system running directly under dodger stadium and downtown los angeles is ``capable of generating moderate-sized destructive earthquakes.''
we all sort of knew in the back of our minds that there had to be (hidden) faults there, but the whittier narrows earthquake kind of brought it home,'' said the study's chief author, university of southern california seismologist egill hauksson
now we can no longer ignore the geologists like thom davis who said these (faults) extend along the whole northern edge of the (los angeles) basin,'' he said
the study's co-authors include researchers from the u.s. geological survey, usc, the california institute of technology and the california division of mines and geology
while davis quietly studied the hidden fault hazard, ``nobody else was even thinking about the problem'' because they focused on the seismic threat from known, visible faults, said usgs seismologist lucile jones, a co-author of the study and hauksson's wife
when the (whittier narrows) earthquake occurred on exactly the kind of fault he said should be there, we listened more closely,'' she said. ``the idea that a system of faults capable of earthquakes underlies the northern los angeles basin is becoming generally accepted.''
hauksson said the whittier narrows quake was small compared with quakes that might be generated if the hidden faults are interconnected and rupture at once. if that happens, ``we're going to have a much bigger disaster on our hands,'' he said
such a quake could measure up to 7.5 on the richter scale of ground motion, jones said. previous studies have shown a magnitude-6.5 in los angeles would be more damaging than an 8-magnitude ``great'' quake on the more distant san andreas fault. officials have said a great quake on the southern san andreas could kill up to 14,000 people and cause $17 billion in damage
jones said the hidden system of faults runs west to east from the santa monica mountains above malibu through the beverly and hollywood hills to dodger stadium and downtown los angeles and then toward the whittier area
richard andrews, the california office of emergency services' assistant director for southern california, said the california earthquake prediction evaluation council met march 11 in los angeles to discuss the study in science
the council was unable to make any recommendations on how the added hazard should be incorporated into emergency plans, because not enough is known about how often such quakes will occur or how strong they will be, andrews said
prince charles and eight other members of britain's royal family attended a funeral service for charles' friend, maj. hugh lindsay, who died in an avalanche that narrowly missed the prince
the 39-year-old heir to the throne read a eulogy in a steady voice during the service thursday at the royal memorial chapel on the grounds of the royal military academy in sandhurst, west of london
among the mourners were lindsay's widow, sarah, who is six months pregnant with their first child
the 34-year-old career army officer and former aide to queen elizabeth ii was skiing with charles off the main trail at klosters in the swiss alps on march 10 when an avalanche struck
charles and other members of the party skied clear and escaped injury, but lindsay and another friend, patti palmer-tomkinson, were swept away. mrs. palmer-tomkinson survived with broken legs and lung injuries
jazz trumpeter miles davis had to cancel concert tour stops in chicago, detroit and overseas after being hospitalized for treatment of a leg infection, his publicist said
davis, 62, entered a new york city hospital, whose name was not disclosed, on march 3 and was expected to remain under treatment three more weeks, terrie williams said thursday
davis injured the leg in france, second stop on a tour that began in italy. dates in chicago and detroit and in hawaii, new zealand and australia have been canceled, williams said
davis' condition was unrelated to a hip implant he received after a car accident in 1975, she said
gov. john mckernan jr. has become a hunted man
dozens of amateur photographers have flocked to the governor's mansion here hoping to get a shot of mckernan walking to his office at the capitol as part of a scavenger hunt being sponsored by radio station wmme-fm
the photograph of maine's chief executive on the hoof is one of several items needed to win the $1,000 prize in ``the wild moose hunt.'' others include a losing state lottery ticket, 92 signatures from 92 different people and an air-sickness bag from an airline
some shutterbugs have waited up to two hours for the governor to appear since the contest was announced tuesday. about 150 people showed up thursday
it wasn't our idea to have a picture in the scavenger hunt to include me, i can tell you that,'' said mckernan, who slipped out of the house 20 minutes early one day, prompting 15 late-comers to march to his office and ask for an impromptu walk
by that time, however, he had already left town for the day, his press secretary said
the scavenger hunt ends saturday, but the governor's office announced he would give contestants one more chance to snap his picture between 7:40 a.m. and 8 a.m. today
philip roth's novel ``the counterlife'' has been honored by a jewish magazine as the outstanding work of fiction with a jewish theme in 1987
present tense, a bi-monthly magazine on jewish affairs, also named dan vittorio segre's ``memoirs of a fortunate jew'' the outstanding work in the autobiography-biography category on thursday
the transformation of german jewry'' by david sorkin was named the outstanding work of history and nehama aschkenasy's ``eve's journey'' was honored in the category of religious thought
author cynthia ozick was given a citation for lifetime literary achievement
the present tense-joel h. cavior literary awards were established nine years ago
a book by former white house chief of staff donald r. regan promising ``fresh insight'' into the reagan administration will be out nine months later than planned, its publisher announced
harcourt brace jovanovich said in a statement thursday that regan delivered the manuscript of ``for the record: from wall street to washington,'' last week and it would be in stores by may 16
the book had been scheduled to come out in september but was pushed ahead based ``on the revelations and scope'' of the manuscript, the publisher said. harcourt brace jovanovich paid $1 million for the publishing rights
the book ``offers fresh insight into the dynamics of the reagan white house, including revelations concerning the unorthodox factors that influence the decision-making process,'' the statement said
bass player emory gordy jr., guitarist chet atkins and keyboardist john hobbs have won their second consecutive academy of country music awards in instrumental categories
drummer archie francis won his 11th trophy, and fiddler johnny gimble and steel guitarist j.d. maness each won their 10th trophies to lead other winners in ballots cast by the 2,500-member academy
the winners were announced thursday by academy executive director bill boyd; trophies will be presented during the 23rd annual academy of country music awards on monday in buena park
david hungate tied gordy in the bass category, ronnie milsap tied hobbs in the keyboard category, and ricky skaggs, who plays mandolin, tied with jerry douglas, who plays the dobro, in the specialty instrument category. with nixon reax; picks up 5th graf pvs bgng, `nixon was'</note>
the chairman of the house judiciary committee and two other lawmakers thursday introduced a resolution to impeach convicted federal judge walter l. nixon jr. of mississippi
judiciary chairman peter w. rodino jr., d-n.j., acted just two days after receiving a recommendation from the judicial conference, the governing body for federal judges
the conference certified to the house that nixon had engaged in conduct which might constitute grounds for impeachment. judges are appointed for life, and can only be removed by congress in an impeachment proceeding
the house votes for impeachment articles, similar to an indictment, and the senate then conducts a trial
my family and i are very upset at this time,'' nixon said in a telephone interview from his home in ocean springs, miss. ``beyond that, i have no further comment. any other comments i may have must come through my attorney.''
nixon was convicted in february 1986 of two counts of perjury before a federal grand jury. he had been acquitted of bribery charges by a federal jury regarding his business relationship with wiley fairchild, a wealthy investor who sold three oil well properties to nixon in 1980 at bargain prices
but the grand jury convicted him of lying when he denied discussing drug charges against fairchild's son with the elder fairchild and with a mississippi prosecutor
the supreme court last jan. 19 refused to review the conviction. nixon is scheduled to go to prison next wednesday
nixon, the chief judge for the southern district of mississippi, said on jan. 20 he would not resign. he stopped hearing cases after he was indicted, but continues to draw his annual judicial salary of $89,500
sponsoring the resolution in addition to rodino were reps. don edwards, d-calif., chairman of the judiciary subcommittee on civil rights; hamilton fish of new york, ranking republican on the full committee; and rep. f. james sensenbrenner jr., r-wis
rodino said, ``in view of the fact that judge nixon has been convicted of a serioius federal crime, and his direct judicial appeals have been exhausted, it becomes incumbent upon the house of representatives to initiate impeachment proceedings.''
the last impeachment was about 18 months ago, when the senate convicted and removed u.s. district judge harry e. claiborne of nevada
illegal aliens are depressing wages and worsening working conditions for legal immigrants and native americans in low-skilled and low-wage jobs, the general accounting office says in a new report
citing empirical data and several case studies, the congressional watchdog agency said both u.s.-born and legally documented immigrants are being hurt, especially those working as janitors and farm and food processing workers
the report identified restaurants and companies producing auto parts, shoes and clothing as others that often employ illegal aliens
the willingness of illegal aliens to work in low-skill jobs for less than the minimum wage in those industries has depressed wages and benefits for comparable native and legal immigrant workers, the gao said
but it also concluded that the low wages paid to illegal aliens allow some of the businesses to grow or survive foreign competition, indirectly expanding job opportunities and wages for higher-skilled workers in the same trades
without a pool of flexible illegal immigrants willing to work at sewing machines in high-fashion garment plants or as shoemakers, the gao said, many companies would shut down or move out of the country
it also said a growing practice by restaurants of using illegal immigrants as dishwashers and busboys allowed the businesses to keep their prices low and thus expand, providing more jobs for more highly skilled waiters and chefs
the labor department disagrees with those conclusions, saying none of the studies surveyed by gao offered any concrete evidence of a positive effect from using illegal workers. it said the only evidence came in comments from employers
in a formal reply to the report, the department also disputed gao's premise that legal workers won't take many of the low-wage jobs, particularly in the shoe and garment industries
the fact is that large numbers of native and legal u.s. workers are in the same labor market as illegal workers,'' the labor department said. ``furthermore, if wages were not depressed by illegal workers, even greater numbers of native and legal workers would be in that labor market.''
the gao said the 1986 immigration reform law and its fines for hiring illegal aliens, if successful, will force wages up for legal immigrants and natives and cause ``considerable stress'' financially for growers and shoe and garment manufacturers
congress asked the gao to survey all available studies and data on illegal immigrants' impact on native and legal immigrant workers in 1985, when it was weighing the employer sanctions that were adopted a year later
the gao has now finally submitted the study to congress, saying that after examining 230 academic and other treatises on the issue, it found scarce useful information. the biggest problem, the gao said, is that illegal aliens are a hidden population, making it hard to identify them for use in any empirical study
about two dozen case studies, however, suggested that employers' use of illegal aliens has displaced native workers and legal immigrants from their jobs and driven down wages of those who remain
the most dramatic examples were among janitors and farm and food processing workers in california
for example, janitors in downtown los angeles office buildings _ most of them black or legal hispanic immigrants _ had won wage and benefits reaching a peak of $12 an hour by 1983 under labor contracts negotiated by the service employees international union
however, in the 1980s a group of aggressive non-union janitorial services hiring predominantly illegal immigrants began wresting the best building contracts away from the unionized firms, driving the union scale back down to $4 an hour and below
of 2,500 black janitors working under high-wage contracts in 1977, only 100 still enjoyed comparative wages by 1985. the union still had 600 working members but 500 of them had suffered large pay cuts
similar events occurred in the southern california citrus and tomato fields, where farm labor contractors using illegal immigrants drove down wage and benefits of legal migrant crop pickers from mexico by 18 percent between 1975 and 1985
the agriculture department thinks its 40-year-old national school lunch program should have had at least a walk-on role in a forthcoming nbc television movie about hunger among children
as it is, the network's hour-long movie, ``a place at the table,'' will be broadcast the night of march 20 without mention of the school lunch program. department officials are giving the movie less than rave reviews
curt block, nbc vice president for media relations, said the purpose of the film's producers ``was to take a broader focus of the problem of hunger'' among children and to ``get across to the public how pervasive the problem is.''
block said the intent was also to show that ``there are a number of ways we can get food to children.''
assistant secretary john w. bode, who oversees school lunch and food stamp programs, said in a statement that ``despite the laudable public service aspects of the movie, it contains serious inaccuracies'' about hunger
in the movie, children are encouraged to donate their brown bag lunches to classmates who are so hungry they attend a soup kitchen after school,'' bode said. ``the film does not acknowledge the existence of the national school lunch program, which provides free school lunches to children of low-income families.''
further, he said, preschool breakfasts are also provided in schools which participate in the usda program
school lunch is only one of a number of federal food assistance programs, including food stamps, which provide more than $20 billion worth of help a year to needy americans,'' bode said. ``that figure translates into $56 million a day in food help.''
further, he said, the school lunch program is one of the largest food service providers in the country, serving more than 24 million children daily, nearly half of whom receive lunches free of charge
since 1980, the federal budget for school lunches has increased 21 percent to the current annual level of $3.4 billion, bode said
according to usda budget officers, about $3 billion in cash subsidies will go to schools to help with lunch programs in the fiscal year that began last oct. 1. an additional $400 million in surplus food commodities also is being distributed
students from families with income of less than 130 percent of the federal poverty line ($14,560 for a family of four) qualify for free meals. the usda pays a subsidy of about $1.54 per meal for those. about 10.3 million students are in that category
reduced-price meals costing no more than 40 cents are available to about 1.6 million students from families with incomes between 130 percent and 185 percent of the poverty level (between $14,560 and $20,720 for a family of four). the usda subsidy is about $1.14 per meal. about 1.64 million students participate
full prices are paid by student from families above 185 percent of poverty (those with incomes of more than $20,720 for a family of four). nearly 12.8 million children pay full prices, but those meals are also subsidized by usda at the rate of about 26 cents per meal
farmers are continuing to make a strong financial comeback from the pounding they endured in the early 1980s, according to a new agriculture department report
cash income still is expected to recede from last year's $57 billion to between $50 billion and $55 billion in 1988, the department's economic research service said thursday
the projected decline will result from lower livestock receipts, rising expenses and lower government payments, the report said. those will more than offset a rise in 1988 crop receipts
net cash income is the difference between gross cash income and cash expenses in the calendar year
the income and debt-service problems that plagued agriculture during the 1980s have largely been weathered, although financial problems persist for some producers who acquired long-term debt at high interest rates,'' the report said. ``a major contributor to increased cash flow is a marked reduction in interest expenses since the difficult 1980-83 years.''
economists said receipts from crop sales are improving as a result of increased domestic and export demand for major commodities, including wheat and corn
receipts from livestock sales should be off slightly, as red meat and poultry production expands almost 2 percent and prices falter,'' the report said. ``fruit prices this spring will be below a year ago as larger supplies come to market.''
consumers can bite into some bargains at fresh fruit counters these days, says a senior agriculture department official
j. patrick boyle, head of the department's agricultural marketing service, said large harvests of apples and winter pears have helped dampen prices. the leading variety of u.s. apple is the red delicious, and the most abundant winter pear is the anjou, he said
the agency estimated that the 1987 apple harvest was up 25 percent, while winter pear output climbed 21 percent
barring unexpected developments, consumers will continue to find apples and winter pears of excellent quality at attractive prices in their grocery stores for several more months,'' boyle said thursday
the first step in bailing out texas' largest bank holding company is raising concerns about the long-term health of the fund that insures deposits in most of the nation's commerical banks
the federal deposit insurance corp. said thursday it was loaning $1 billion to banks owned by first republicbank corp. of dallas for six months in a move to reassure depositors worried about the banks' shaky real estate loans
the infusion represents only about 5 percent of the fdic's insurance fund, which backs deposits of $100,000 and less at 13,600 banks. but bank analysts believe it could turn out to be the first big hit of a bad year for the fund
fdic chairman l. william seidman isn't saying how much he believes his agency ultimately may have to spend to rescue the $33.2 billion holding company, the largest in texas and the 13th biggest in the country
the analysts, however, are suggesting that the first republicbank loan is, in effect, a down payment on a $2 billion to $4 billion problem
first republicbank is about the same size that continental illinois corp. was in 1984 when it required the largest-ever government bank bailout of $4.5 billion
and more bad news is likely from other banks, particularly in texas, where mcorp, a $21 billion, money-losing bank holding company, has been exploring restructuring options
but seidman says the situations of continental and first republicbank are not the same and he points with hope to fdic conversations with private investors and to signs that texas' economy is rebounding
he notes his fund's survival during 1987, the worst year for commercial banking since the great depression, both in terms of low profits and the number of bank failures
despite the rescue of first city bancorporation of houston and the failure of 184 banks in 1987, the fdic fund still managed a modest increase to $18.3 billion
therefore, we don't see anything that we are going to do this year that is going to cause a substantial decline in the fund. i mean by substantial, 25 percent,'' he said
however, bert ely, an alexandria, va., financial consultant, said, ``my sense is they are going to lose money.''
the fund's income from interest and from premiums paid by member banks _ $3.3 billion last year _ is increasing at a slower rate than deposits, he said. the ratio of fdic assets to insured deposits has fallen from more than $1.20 per $100 in 1981 to close to $1.10
still, the fdic fund is in far better shape than its sister fund for the thrift industry, the federal savings and loan insurance corp. unlike fslic, the fdic probably would still be in the black after accounting for all of the problems suffered by its member institutions, ely said
industry experts are skeptical of the chances for fdic's efforts to attract private investors to take on some of the risks of operating a restructured first republicbank
i'm sure there probably are people who are kicking the tires and have expressed an interest to the fdic,'' said stephen skaggs, a senior analyst for sheshunoff &amp; co., an austin, texas, consulting firm
but i just don't see that there's any great appetite for investments (like first republicbank) unless the fdic is willing to assume substantially all of the risk.''
according to sandy flannigan, an analyst with paine webber inc. in houston, the search for private capital for first republicbank does not improve the chances for other texas banks such as mcorp to attract new investors
first city, which is getting $500 million from a private investment group in addition to the fdic money, ``was first to the well,'' she said. ``they are in far better shape than those who follow. there isn't an infinite number of investors interested in texas banks.''
ironically, the deepening bank crisis comes amid signs that texas' economy is improving
the whole thing is just a very sad situation,'' said paul getman, senior financial economist of the wefa group, a philadelphia-area consulting firm. ``just when people thought the situation in texas might turn around, it has in fact worsened. ... the overall economic situation ... has picked up a bit, it has just not improved fast enough to help these banks. ... it's just too little too late.''
the scary thing ... is that if right now these banks are doing so poorly with an economy that is doing fairly well nationally, what will happen to them if the national growth turns sluggish for the next few years?'' he asked
the nikkei stock average closed at 25,966.26 points, up 93.97 points, on the tokyo stock exchange friday. bombs fell in nicaraguan territory, a third in honduras. picks up 5th graf pvs, `a honduran ...</note>
two unidentified jets from honduras roared into nicaraguan territory on thursday and dropped bombs near a sandinista military encampment along the border
two bombs fell in nicaragua and a third landed across the coco river in honduran territory, sandinista officers said. there was no damage or injuries
the raid came a day after honduras accused nicaragua of sending thousands of soldiers across the border in pursuit of u.s.-supported contra rebels
a honduran armed forces spokesman in tegucigalpa, the honduran capital, said the bombs were aimed at sandinista forces that crossed into the neighboring country. he denied the planes entered nicaraguan airspace
more than 3,000 american soldiers began arriving in honduras in a show of support thursday. ortega declared his army ready to ``combat and liquidate'' the americans and said his soldiers will not withdraw from the border region
nicaragua has committed an estimated 6,000 soldiers to an anti-rebel operation in an area running from the central region to the border, with most at the frontier
about 25 reporters, most of them americans, watched as the jets roared into nicaragua at about noon thursday. the journalists dived for cover but were not hurt as the bombs exploded as close as 70 yards away
the leftist sandinista government flew the journalists to the region for a briefing on its offensive against the u.s.-supported contra rebels
none of the five soviet-made helicopters used in the area for movement of troops or evacuation were hit by the bombs. in washington, sources who spoke on condition of anonymity claimed that one soviet-made helicopter on the ground had been damaged. the soviet union supplies the sandinistas with military hardware and training
the sandinistas opened fire at the planes with anti-aircraft guns but apparently did not hit either of them
some military officials in nicaragua described the planes as french-made mysteres, while others said they were u.s.-made f-5s. the honduran air force has both
a u.s. official in washington said two u.s.-built f-5s and four super-mystere attack jets of the honduran air force carried out the raid
this was totally a honduran operation,'' the official said, speaking on condition of anonymity
upon hearing of the raid, ortega abruptly left a meeting with opposition politicians called to discuss their differences with the government. a presidential source, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said ortega held an urgent meeting with his military chiefs
later, foreign minister miguel d'escoto said he had sent a diplomatic note to secretary of state george p. shultz ``formally and energetically protesting'' the attack, which he blamed on the united states
the government voice of nicaragua radio also said thursday that unidentified planes from honduras buzzed corinto, nicaragua's main port, and anti-aircraft batteries fired on them
the broadcast gave no details. corinto is on the pacific, about 70 miles northwest of managua
honduras has one of central america's smallest armies and relies on air superiority for defense. it and mexico are the only nations in the region with jet fighters
ortega called the dispatch of u.s. troops to honduras ``one more escalation of the war against nicaragua.'' at nicaragua's request, the u.n. security council will meet in urgent session friday on the nicaraguan-honduran border crisis and on the dispatch of u.s. troops to honduras
in managua, ortega said: ``we logically are going to maintain our offensive. ... we are not going to withdraw our troops now that we have recovered our territory
we are ready to combat and liquidate the famous forces of the 82nd airborne division.''
earlier, a foreign ministry spokesman said nicaragua already had begun withdrawing troops from the border region after driving about 2,000 contra rebels back into honduras
the operations have succesfully been concluded, and we don't plan to stay along the border region,'' the spokesman, alejandro bendana, said on nbc's ``today'' show
the 3,200 u.s. soldiers who began arriving in honduras on thursday include two battalions from the 82nd airborne at fort bragg, n.c
ortega accused the united states of pressuring honduras into asking for the american presence
the c-141 planes carrying the u.s. troops were arriving every 30 minutes at palmerola air force base, the main center of u.s. military operations in honduras. the base is about 125 miles west of the border, where heavy fighting was reported wednesday
bendana denied u.s. and honduran allegations that sandinista troops entered honduras. ortega himself wouldn't say if sandinista troops crossed the border
but honduran military officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said about 4,000 honduran soldiers were surrounding about 2,000 nicaraguan soldiers thursday. the sources said the entire honduran military was on alert
ortega told reporters the nicaraguan ``invasion only exists in the warped imagination of the north american leaders.''
we demand that the united states withdraw its troops from honduras immediately and, with this, contribute to the meeting that is going to be held in sapoa march 21 having positive results,'' he said
government and contra representatives are scheduled to begin three days of peace talks monday in sapoa, a town in southern nicaragua near the border with costa rica
ortega said the united states would use the current situation to give the contras logistical and military aid not approved by congress
u.n. secretary-general javier perez de cuellar called for restraint in the conflict but had not decided whether to send in an observer team. to clarify where bombs fell. picks up 6th graf pvs, `the journalists ....' deletes first reference to carrion in 12th graf pvs `lt. col javier...'</note>
nicaraguan officials apparently wanted to show reporters how quiet this jungle-covered border region was when they flew them here thursday, following a major offensive against contra rebels
but as officials were briefing about 25 journalists at a military base, two unidentified jet planes from honduras roared into nicaraguan territory and dropped bombs along the border
the reporters dived into the dirt for cover. no one was hurt
some military officials in nicaragua described the planes as french-made mysteres, while others said they were u.s.-made f-5s. the honduran air force has both
the bombs landed along the coco river, which marks the border between the two countries. puffs of black smoke curled over the banana trees
lt. col. javier carrion, the deputy chief of the sandinista army's general staff, said two bombs landed in nicaraguan territory and one in honduras
the journalists' briefing came after reagan administration officials had claimed that nicaraguan troops had penetrated honduran territory in pursuit of the u.s.-backed rebels. nicaragua and honduras share a long, ill defined border
as the jets roared in thursday, drowning out the lapping of the slow-moving river and the chirping of crickets, journalists and soldiers threw themselves against the earth
some of the bombs exploded about 70 yards away from where they lay
maj. rosa pasos, the defense ministry spokeswoman, lost her eyeglasses in the weeds but quickly found them. she wore an american-made uniform that had apparently been taken from a contra rebel
the sandinistas opened fire at the planes with anti-aircraft guns. they apparently didn't hit either of them
none of the five soviet-made helicopters used in this area 175 miles from managua was hit. in washington, sources who spoke on condition of anonymity claimed that one soviet-made helicopter on the ground had been damaged. the soviet union supplies the sandinistas with military hardware and training
carrion, who had been conducting the offensive against the contras, said that jets had buzzed the coco river earlier in the day
asked whether sandinista troops had crossed the border in their offensive, carrion replied, ``well, no.''
there are sectors in the mountains here where you can get lost. it's easy to confuse the topography.''
however, carrion displayed a map showing where sandinista troops had destroyed contra camps along a six-mile route on both sides of the coco river
thursday's attack came hours after 3,200 american troops arrived in honduras in a show of force
nicaraguan officers said the air attack appeared to be aimed at harassing the sandinistas
senators are pressing the reagan administration with a host of worries about how plywood, potatoes and other home-state products would fare under the u.s. and canadian agreement to phase out tariffs
the outpouring of concern came thursday at a senate finance committee session with treasury secretary james a. baker iii and u.s. trade representative clayton k. yeutter
dropping potato tariffs under the plan will magnify the importance of canadian potato subsidies and a canadian ban on maine potatoes, declared sen. george j. mitchell, d-maine
will you gentlemen explain to me and maine potato farmers why this agreement is good for them?'' mitchell said
before i fully support a free-trade agreement, i must make sure that it will not hurt coal,'' said sen. jay rockefeller, d-w.va
we're being moved out of their markets'' even without the agreement, said sen. david durenberger, r-minn. ``and it is wheat, and it is potatoes and it is corn.''
sen. donald w. riegle jr., d-mich., said that of the nation's $13 billion trade deficit with canada last year ``nearly half of that is in auto and truck activity.''
i must say to you that i have very serious reservations about that section of the treaty,'' riegle said
finance committee chairman lloyd bentsen, d-texas, told the administration officials that they must not merely dismiss the questions as narrow concerns that skirt the big picture
baker declared that the agreement ``is in the national economic interest or we wouldn't have sent it up here for approval.''
it is unlikely that we'll ever negotiate a utopian agreement,'' yeutter said
sen. bob packwood, r-ore., called for approval of the u.s.-canada treaty, but he expressed concern that canada already has violated the agreement by failing to retest u.s. plywood that canada says cracks in extreme cold
they're used in nome, they're used on the north slope (in alaska),'' he said. ``they don't crack where they're used.''
and bentsen expressed impatience when yeutter said energy provisions of the agreement will be valuable to the united states ``in the long run.''
the oil-state senator, who has been concerned about sagging petroleum prices, replied that ``in the long run we'll all be dead.''
i'm concerned about what's happening while we're all still around here,'' bentsen said. ``i have a state that's in a depression.''
with some of the most expensive campaign states coming up, the presidential candidates are pressing fund-raising appeals anew and only george bush is out of the financial woods
after costly excursions into the 20 super tuesday states on march 8, the candidates now face money-draining states like new york, pennsylvania, california and ohio
bush has almost finished raising as much money as he can legally spend, and still has more than $4 million available to spend at this time, a spokeswoman said. gop rival pat robertson has spent nearly to the $27 million limit and has to dramatically scale back his campaign
among democrats, sen. paul simon of illinois and rep. richard gephardt of missouri both are looking for enough cash to keep their campaigns afloat beyond caucuses on march 26 in michigan and primaries march 29 in connecticut and april 5 in wisconsin
the democratic money leader, massachusetts gov. michael dukakis, has an active april fund-raising schedule, and remains in good financial shape, his campaign said
democrat jesse jackson, whose fund-raising has trailed that of opponents, has been picking up money through an aggressive mail program, and will appeal for money in california this weekend
sen. albert gore jr.'s campaign is ``in the black'' and has ``a sufficient amount of money to do what we need to do,'' said spokesman arlie schardt
we're in good solid shape,'' schardt said, but declined to give any specifics. gore borrowed heavily for pre-super tuesday tv ads
bush plans to shut down his fund-raising operation by the end of april, after a handful of high-ticket dinners and one final mailing to his faithful contributors, said campaign treasurer fred bush, who is no relation to the candidate
at that point bush will have raised the $27 million, plus another $2 million or so for legal and accounting costs, which are exempt from the limit. however, he has not spent the limit, so he can continue campaigning
as bush continues the road to all-but-certain nomination this summer, people are flocking to give him money and two dozen had to be refused tickets to a $1,000-a-person dinner at a private home this week, the treasurer said
robertson is in a different situation, having spent nearly the limit. he says he will rely heavily on volunteer efforts to see him through the rest of the campaign
sen. bob dole's spokeswoman, dale tate, said the kansas republican's poor showing on super tuesday and in illinois did not result in a dramatic decrease of contributions, although, ``we're not bathing in dollars.''
conversely, contributors have been calling to urge dole to stay in the race, she said
on friday, callers pledged $140,000, on monday $95,000 and on tuesday $60,000, she said, adding, ``these are republicans saying we think there should be a race.''
dukakis spokesman mark gearan said the campaign raised $100,000 wednesday night in new york, and is getting financial mileage out of the candidate's strong super tuesday showing
dukakis has about $1.5 million in the bank, not counting the more than $600,000 he got this week in federal matching funds, said spokesman leslie dach
simon and gephardt, who face uphill struggles in fund-raising after their poor super tuesday showings, both said they are out of debt at this point
both also said they had record fund-raising months in february _ gephardt collecting $1.2 million and simon more than $900,000
and gephardt spokesman mark johnson said, ``it's a day-to-day thing.'' he said the campaign was aggressively seeking money, and gephardt was putting in personal calls to contributors
gephardt is targeting michigan for a heavy advertising campaign, but johnson said he has no idea whether any loans will be taken out
simon spokesman david carle said the campaign, which has scaled back its payroll and operations, had around $300,000 in cash on hand
simon collected about $60,000 at a chicago event monday night, and expected to bring in another $25,000 thursday night in new york, he said
a mailing to simon's 50,000 contributors will go out next week, and unsolicited donations came in following simon's victory in his home state of illinois, carle said. he declined to give specific figures
simon will strongly contest wisconsin with a large television campaign, but will not buy ads in michigan, he said
traffic fatalities in the united states last year were the ``lowest in history'' based on miles driven, according to the department of transportation
the department reported on thursday that fatalities dropped significantly in 1987 and attributed the decline to increasing use of seat belts and a reduction in drunken driving
the department said its characterization of the 1987 fatality rate as the lowest in history used as a yardstick the number of deaths per 100 million miles of travel. for 1987 that figure was 2.4 deaths. the highest number was the 24.08 deaths per 100 million miles in 1921, the first year the calculation was made
the department's national highway traffic safety administration also released figures estimating that 8,035 lives were saved and 95,500 injuries prevented by seat belts since 1983
the rate of deaths per 100 million miles of travel dropped from 2.5 in 1986 and 3.3 in 1980. about 40 percent of the fatalities last year involved drunken driving, a drop from the 46 percent three years earlier
the department said 32 states and the district of columbia have mandatory seat belt laws and estimated 1,350 lives were saved in 1987 alone because of the laws in effect
an avianca jetliner smashed into a mountain minutes after takeoff, triggered a landslide and burst into flames, killing all 137 people aboard, officials and witnesses said
among the 131 passengers were a roman catholic auxiliary bishop and more than 30 soccer players, officials said. there were no americans aboard, they said
the boeing 727 clipped trees before hitting the snow-covered mountain 50 miles away near zulia, witnesses said
the craft took off in heavy fog at 1:16 p.m. thursday from cucuta, 250 miles northeast of bogota, on a domestic flight to the caribbean port of barranquilla
rescue workers who reached the wreckage thursday night said there were no survivors, col. miguel benedetti, civil defense director for the state of north santander, said in a interview by radio-telephone from zulia
the impact of the plane against the mountain was so violent that it caused a landslide which buried part of the aircraft,'' said benedetti
work crews, some using helicopters, were to return to the crash site today, said col. edgar lozano, spokesman for the civil aeronautics agency. rain, snow and rough terrain hampered rescue efforts thursday
airport officials lost radio contact with the plane four minutes after it took off, although no problems had been reported up to that point, said lozano
lozano said the plane apparently was unable to get enough altitude to fly over the 8,000-foot mountain
zulia police said three witnesses reported that the plane clipped some trees, then slammed into the mountain and burst into flames
we heard a tremendous noise ... and ran toward the mountain where we saw the ruins of the plane,'' said victor pineda villamizar, a schoolteacher, in an interview with the radio network rcn
he said local rescuers could not reach the crash site because of the rough terrain
avianca and the government air agency reported the plane was carrying 131 passengers and six crew members. they both had had given different numbers earlier
the agency said the passenger list included monsignor horacio olave velandia, 44, who was named auxiliary bishop of tibu in february, and at least 31 soccer players from two teams who were flying to a tournament in cartagena
the soccer teams were affiliated with the state petroleum company ecopetrol
colombia's last major air crash occurred july 27, 1985, when an air force transport plane went down in the amazon jungle, killing 74 people. the military plane was carrying civilian passengers because of an airline strike
peace talks scheduled to begin monday between the contra rebels and the nicaraguan government are off unless sandinista troops withdraw from honduras, a contra leader says
if this situation does not take a radical turn, we will not attend,'' aristides sanchez, a member of the five-person directorate of the nicaraguan resistance, said thursday. the group has its headquarters in miami
sanchez said the contras would attend the meeting only if the sandinistas withdraw at once from honduras. ``there could be changes in the next four days, but i doubt they will be positive,'' he said
nicaraguan government officials maintain their troops didn't advance into honduras, but the reagan administration claims they did and dispatched 3,200 american soldiers to honduras because of their presence
the sandinista government of daniel ortega and contra representatives are scheduled to begin three days of talks monday in sapoa, a town in southern nicaragua near the border with costa rica
if monday's meeting is held, it will be the first on nicaraguan soil between the two sides
a contra spokeswoman in miami said intense fighting continued thursday with 2,000 sandinista troops still in honduras
the intention of the sandinistas was to weaken our position at the negotiating table,'' marta sacasa said. ``it's also timed to coincide with the end of united states aid.''
preliminary reports indicated 10 contra rebels were killed and 56 wounded in the sandinista offensive, she said
they have been able to overrun certain of our positions and we have had to disperse,'' ms. sacasa said. ``we're trying to avoid a frontal engagement and rely on guerrilla tactics.''
contra leaders had no comment on the american troops airlifted to honduras in a show of support for the central american nation, ms. sacasa said
the united states troops did not go to honduras to involve themselves with the fighting in any way, so we have no comment,'' she said. 2nd graf pvs bgng, ``the opening jump...</note>
the u.s. dollar rose sharply and stock prices continued to rally friday as traders in tokyo reacted to favorable economic reports
on the tokyo stock exchange, the nikkei stock average of 225 selected issues finished the day's trading at 25,966.26 points, up 93.97 points, or 0.36 percent, from thusday's closing figure
the dollar closed at 128.35 yen, up 0.92 yen from thursday's close, but down from its 128.65-yen opening
the opening jump was in reaction to sharp rises in the dollar recorded on the new york and london markets due to the u.s. trade figures,'' said a foreign exchange dealer, who requested anonymity, with a major bank
another dealer, who also asked not to be named, said the dollar later receded because of selling pressure from exporters and insurance companies
figures released thursday in washington by the u.s. commerce department indicated the u.s. trade deficit for january rose to $12.44 billion from $12.2 billion the previous month. but although the gap widened by 1.9 percent, imports to the united states declined by 6 percent during the month
improvements in the u.s. trade deficit reduce the pressure for a weaker dollar, which has been a key weapon in the reagan administration's attempts to narrow the imbalance
on the tokyo stock exchange, the nikkei stock average index of 225 selected issues closed the morning session at 25,911.10 points, up 38.81 from thursday's close. volume in the first section was estimated at 750 million shares
the early gains on the nikkei average followed three consecutive closing rallies that brought the index to a level higher than that just prior to the october crash
israeli prime minister yitzhak shamir urged american jews to close ranks behind israel as it tries to quell riots by palestinians in the occupied territories of the west bank and the gaza strip
when unity breaks down, then our enemies exploit every critical statement to their own end,'' shamir said to enthusiastic applause from 1,600 american jews at a fund-raising banquet on thursday
he apparently referred to criticism by some jews of the israeli army's use of beatings and live ammunition to quell riots in the occupied territories. at least 100 palestinians have been killed in more than three months of violence
shamir also warned israel's supporters not to compare the palestinian protests to a civil rights struggle
these are not passive civil rights marches. these are another expression of the arab refusal to accept israel, to coexist with us, and to recognize that israel is a permanent feature in the region,'' shamir said
if there were some excesses, they were isolated cases that were blown way out of proportion by the media,'' he added
those attending the $60-a-plate benefit at the century plaza hotel agreed to pledge at least $1,000 to either the united jewish fund or israel bonds during the coming year
earlier thursday, at a ceremony dedicating a cornerstone for a museum commemorating the holocaust, shamir told about 1,500 people that americans and europeans may wrongly interpret the arab rebellion
they cry, `palestine is arab,' and openly declare that all of palestine is theirs,'' he said
shamir also was scheduled to address a luncheon meeting today of the los angeles world affairs council. he is scheduled to leave los angeles on saturday evening
the prime minister, fresh from his meeting with president reagan, secretary of state george p. shultz, and congressional leaders in washington, reiterated his opposition to an american plan for peace in the middle east that calls for an international conference
president reagan toasted ``seamus wright'' among other adversaries during a capitol hill luncheon after paying a surprise visit to a tavern in a celebration of st. patrick's day
standing thursday at a table covered with a green cloth and decorated with green carnations, the president wished house speaker jim wright ``warm words on a cold evening and a full moon on a dark night.''
wright, who wore a green jacket and green tie, declared that ``we've buried all differences that might exist between political parties and branches of government on this day of st. patrick.'' he toasted reagan, 77, for his youthfulness
wright's great-grandmother, grace hannington, emigrated from county dungannon, ireland, in 1837. the irish for james is seamus
reagan traces his irish roots to his great-great-grandfather, michael o'regan, who left county tipperary during the potato famine of the 1840s
before he arrived at the capitol, reagan paid a surprise visit to ireland's own, a noisy pub in suburban alexandria, va., where he sipped beer and sampled corned beef and cabbage with columnist james j. kilpatrick
the president, a moderate drinker, left most of the beer in his glass, but joined the tavern crowd in singing ``when irish eyes are smiling,'' and clapping to guitar and fiddle music
reagan, who like most presidents is seldom seen handling money, reached in his pocket for some currency and paid his own check when he left
on a more serious note, reagan issued a statement urging concerned americans to refuse financial or moral support to irish terrorists
northern ireland continues to suffer from senseless violence, which tragically we have seen repeated in recent days, and high unemployment,'' he said
we can best address these problems by supporting those who seek peaceful settlements to disputes, and rejecting those who seek solutions through terror.''
meantime, members of congress commemorating st. patrick's day said britain's refusal to prosecute certain cases of criminal conduct by its forces in northern ireland is ``intolerable'' and tarnishes britain's international reputation
we call on the british government to prosecute any member of the security forces who has engaged in criminal conduct in northern ireland,'' said a statement issued by friends of ireland in congress, a 160-member bipartisan group
it is intolerable not to pursue and bring to justice individuals known to have perverted justice.''
the statement did not mention a recent string of violent incidents that started march 6 when british troops in gibraltar killed three unarmed irish republican army guerrillas who allegedly were on a bombing mission
another congressional group, the ad hoc congressional committee for irish affairs, which includes 41 house and senate members from both parties, called for a new investigation of the royal ulster constabulary, the british police force in northern ireland
both groups urged britain to enact laws to help stop discrimination against the roman catholic minority in northern ireland that has resulted in jobless rates of more than 50 percent among catholic men in some areas
three democratic presidential hopefuls _ who also are the leaders in the national delegate race _ were campaigning in kansas, which holds county caucuses on saturday
massachusetts gov. michael dukakis and jesse jackson were campaigning today in the state, a day after a foray by tennessee sen. albert gore jr
at saturday's caucuses, local delegates will be elected to district conventions april 23 and the state convention may 2. at the district and state conventions, 39 of kansas' 43 national delegates to the democratic convention in atlanta in july will be elected
the candidates who win the most local delegates saturday will claim the national delegates at the later conventions. four state party leaders automatically are national delegates
gore, the first of the democratic contenders to come to kansas ahead of the caucuses, scored something of a coup thursday when he was invited to address the state house of representatives and gained a qualified endorsement from state democratic party chairman jim parrish
dukakis was speaking at a rally in the capitol rotunda today, then holding a statehouse news conference. jackson scheduled a speech at washburn university and another at wichita state university
missouri rep. richard gephardt has the support of kansas' two democratic u.s. house members, dan glickman and jim slattery, but has not campaigned here in advance of the caucuses. illinois sen. paul simon, who is strapped for cash and concentrating on races in michigan and wisconsin, made little effort here
there are two ways, perhaps more, of looking at the results of president reagan's six-year effort in support of the contra rebels
in the administration's view, the contras have kept the focus of nicaragua's leftist government on surviving, preventing it from promoting the spread of revolution elsewhere
as a result, the administration says, each of nicaragua's neighbors has been able consolidate or at least make a beginning on building democratic institutions
reagan's worst-case scenario for the region _ a belt of pro-soviet states extending from the panama canal to guatemala with the possibility that mexico itself ultimately will be threatened _ has not been borne out. he believes the contras deserve much of the credit
but the other view is that the costs of the policy have been exorbitant, far outweighing the benefits
administration critics maintain that american backing for the contras has led to tens of thousands of dead and wounded and set back the nicaraguan economy by a generation
and nicaragua has been, in some ways, a wrecker of reputations, playing the same role that vietnam did two decades ago
on wednesday, the same day that reagan decided to send u.s. troops to honduras, a federal grand jury indicted former national security adviser john m. poindexter, lt. col. oliver l. north and two of their associates, richard v. secord and albert hakim
as independent counsel lawrence e. walsh described it, ``the heart of the case'' against the four was their role in diverting funds from iran arms sales to the contras
poindexter and north, two of the most influential figures in government less than a year and a half ago, face the prospect of extended jail terms because they are alleged to have disregarded the law in their zeal to support the contras
the contra cause has divided american public opinion more than any other issue during reagan's presidency. no other dispute has generated more distrust and acrimony between the administration and the congress
while reagan has compared the contras with america's founding fathers, sen. claiborne pell, d-r.i., calls them ``our terrorists.'' both sides believe the other's policies will lead inevitably to an american troop commitment in the region
the u.s. policy has fluctuated over the years. the contras took up arms with american encouragement but now live month to month without knowing whether they can count on continued u.s. backing
their latest setback had its origins in the feb. 29 cutoff of u.s. aid. within days, the sandinistas began preparations for an offensive against a rebel concentration in the bocay valley near the honduran border
as described by bosco matamoros, a contra spokesman, the rebels were left virtually without food and other supplies and the means to evacuate their wounded. the sandinistas, whose offensive got under way in earnest on tuesday, claim the contra death toll is in the hundreds
reagan administration officials say that if the sandinistas succeed in destroying a key supply depot in the area, the impact on the remaining 10,000 or so contras deployed elsewhere in nicaragua could be decisive, both materially and psychologically
administration critics say none of this would have happened if reagan had not been so foolish as to believe the contras could have prevailed against the sandinistas in the first place or to think that such a small, poor country could represent any threat at all to u.s. security
the administration counters that congress is to blame, and that reliable u.s. support for the contras would have eventually produced a sandinista surrender, ushering in peace and democracy in central america
the administration's problem all along has been that it can't prove its worst-case scenario, unless it happens
if indeed the collapse of the contras leads to the communization of central america and a new security situation for the united states, reagan will have been proven correct
but if that day ever comes, reagan will be long gone and a successor administration will have to deal with the consequences

editor's note _ george gedda has covered foreign affairs for the associated press since 1968
colorado's roy romer is ready for a brokered democratic convention: ``i'm going! i'd like to have a voice.'' but arkansas' bill clinton is not so sure about a deadlocked meeting in atlanta, as the democratic governors worry about their party's still unresolved presidential battle
it depends entirely on how all the major players conduct themselves,'' said clinton, who considered entering the 1988 race himself. ``if it turns out to be a really divisive fight waged in front of the entire american people on national television, it could be devastating.''
the democratic governors are major players in the 1988 democratic nomination battle, for they make up part of the 645 unpledged super delegates to the atlanta convention in july
with the democratic race still confused and lacking a clear front-runner after a month of primaries and caucuses, the governors also now take on the role of leaders who can nudge the party to unify behind one candidate or to take the race to atlanta
there will be brokering,'' new york gov. mario cuomo said thursday. ``the question is when and how. either you broker at the convention ... and the whole united states will see you in the grubby business of cutting deals. i say that's no way to do it. let's do it when they're not watching.''
one of the governors' own _ michael dukakis of massachusetts _ leads jesse jackson narrowly in the race for national convention delegates, but both are far short of a majority of those chosen
dukakis sought to widen his delegate lead thursday by working capitol hill, where he picked up several endorsements. he visited with sen. bill bradley of new jersey, who is said to be leaning toward endorsing the massachusetts governor
colorado's romer _ who recently endorsed dukakis with favorite son gary hart out of the race _ was one of the few governors who has made his choice who still likes the brokered convention idea
it is possible it wil be undecided by the time we get there and i don't think that's bad,'' he said. ``it helps in the sense it keeps the excitement going.''
romer brushed aside democratic party chairman paul kirk's suggestion that party leaders get together after the primary ends in june to unite the party behind the leading candidate at that point
wait a minute! if you have three people pretty close and one's a little bit higher than the other, i don't think you can make that decision before the convention. why do you have a convention? ... i'm going! i'd like to have a voice,'' he said
but maryland gov. donald schaefer said trying to guide one's delegation at a multiballot convention would be dangerous: ``i'm going to step in with a light toe.''
minnesota's gov. rudy perpich doesn't think a brokered convention _ where no candidate has a majority of the delegates and compromises must be sought to decide on a nominee _ would be so bad. and he does not agree with kirk's call for the party leaders to step in a month before the convention
clinton said kirk's idea might work if one of the candidate has more than 1,400 delegates at the end of the primary process _ of the 2,082 needed to win the nomination
cuomo, who is the oft-mentioned white-knight candidate to be tapped by a deadlocked convention, said the nominee must be decided in advance of atlanta
there are other people who say, `no, let's do it in the convention, in the open the way we always have historically.' we haven't always done it that way. carter didn't do it that way, mondale didn't do it that way,'' he said
both jimmy carter in 1976 and walter mondale in 1984 picked up enough delegates outside of the caucus and primary process to win the nominations
i think that's the way we ought to do it again, but i don't think my position is a particularly popular one and i'm afraid that it may come out that you'll wind up brokering at the convention,'' said cuomo
cuomo said he expected to play a part in any brokering ``just by virtue of the place i occupy as governor of the state. we're the largest state ... with a democratic governor.''
reaction to kirk's idea was varied. connecticut gov. william o'neill said that it is too early to be talking about such moves. and maryland's schaefer said circumstances in june will shape such possibilities: ``it all depends. that's a nice theory but you've got to be practical.''
hawaii gov. john waihee and vermont gov. madeleine kunin join in fearing a brokered convention, in part because both are dukakis backers
tennessee gov. ned mcwherter, a strong supporter of sen. albert gore of tennessee, said he believes gore ``is in a strong position to get the nomination by the time the convention begins,'' so brokering won't be a factor
wyoming gov. mike sullivan thinks that a brokered convention is a good possibility _ and that it is too early to judge its impact
i don't think you can answer that good or bad,'' he said. ``i think it would depend on how it was handled during the convention. it certainly is going to generate some enthusiasm that will be absent in the republican convention.''
dukakis has 464.5 delegate votes, just ahead of jackson with 460.55. gore has 354 and sen. paul simon of illinois 171.5. rep. richard gephardt of missouri has 145 delegates. a total of 272.65 are uncommitted
among the super delegates, dukakis has 42.5 votes, gephardt 21, gore, 19.8, jackson 19.55, simon 15.5 and uncommitted 237.65. says</head>
surgeon general c. everett koop says he fears the tendency of the young to believe health warnings are not intended for them could lead to the aids virus spreading among high school and college-age americans
my greatest concern is with the group aged 15 to 24,'' koop told a convention of hospital administrators thursday
officials may have a better idea of the extent of the aids virus among college students by the end of the year as more colleges go along with a centers for disease control request to conduct blind blood testing, koop said
under such procedures, already used by hospitals in about 40 cities, blood drawn for other purposes is tested for aids without the sample being identified by patient
he noted that sexually transmitted diseases in general are rising at the steepest rate in 16 years ``in spite of the tremendous educational campaign in 1987, where for the first time in history we were discussing in the print media and on television very blunt statements about aids and sexually transmitted disease.''
if there is hiv (the aids virus) out there, and we know there is, then there can't help but be some infection going on that we're not going to see until we get down the road about five years,'' he told the federation of american health systems
it can take five years or more for aids to develop after a person contracts the virus
so with teen-agers, who think that they're immortal, who always think the health message is meant for the person next to them, who have sort of a sense that risk-taking is sort of fun, we have our most difficult target group, especially with regard to heterosexual transmission.''
earlier, the federal official who oversees the medicare and medicaid government health programs for the elderly and poor told the hospital executives they have been given ``an almost impossible task: controlling physician decision-making.''
in the coming years, the challenge of cost constraint will continue unabated, but the focus will have to shift from hospital to physician payment reform,'' said dr. william l. roper, head of the health care financing administration
there is deep-seated ambivalence in america about intruding on physician decision-making,'' said roper, ``but we cannot have both physician autonomy and cost constraint.''
the republican party chairman of this u.s. commonwealth and five other people connected to the government were charged by a federal grand jury with extorting money from businessmen
among those named in two indictments returned thursday were the party chairman, jesus mafnas, a government personnel officer; commonwealth rep. mariano bermudes; former commonwealth senate president ponciano rasa and his brother, oscar rasa, publisher of the now-defunct commonwealth examiner newspaper
also indicted were former senate legal counsel james doerty and former senate employee leo pangelinan
one indictment accused mafnas of soliciting and receiving a $22,760 bribe in 1986 from adrian johnston, owner of the surf hotel
in exchange for the money, mafnas guaranteed that the marianas public land corp. would grant the hotel a lease for a piece of public beachfront land located next to the hotel, the indictment said
in the second indictment, the rasa brothers, pangelinan, bermudes and doerty were accused of demanding payments of $222,000 in 1983 from sumitomo corp. and subsequently receiving $113,000 in bribes from the japanese construction company
according to the indictment, the five conspired to force sumitomo to pay a 1 percent commission on all northern marianas business awarded the company
mafnas and bermudes were each charged with one count of extortion. the rasa brothers were each charged with two counts of extortion, while doerty and pangelinan each faced three counts of extortion. mafnas also was charged with one count of conspiracy to commit extortion
at the request of assistant u.s. attorney george proctor, u.s. district judge alfred laureta set bail for mafnas, ponciano rasa, pangelinan and bermudes at $25,000 each. laureta also issued arrest warrants for oscar rasa and doerty, who now live in california
arraignment was set for march 25
bermudes had no comment on the indictment, pangelinan and mafanas have unlisted numbers and could not be reached for comment and ponciano rasa did return a telephone call to his home, the pacific daily news reported
severe cutbacks are devastating the coast guard's drug interdiction and search and rescue operations, the agency's chief said in asking congress for an immediate transfer of $60 million from other accounts
we have coast guard cutters sitting at docks and planes on the runways,'' said adm. paul a. yost, commandant of the coast guard. ``congressional approval of the reprogramming request would let us put those ships and planes back to work patrolling the high seas.''
president reagan on thursday asked congress to transfer money from highway, mass transit and amtrak funds to restore the patrols, which were ordered cut back by the administration last month to help make up for a $103 million budget shortfall
the coast guard eliminated routine search and rescue patrols, cut drug patrols by 55 percent, eliminated 1,100 jobs, closed down nearly 30 coast guard installations and severely reduced other stations
none of the jobs or installations would be restored with the $60 million. that money would be devoted exclusively to restoring patrol levels to their pre-cutback levels, yost said
before the cutbacks, yost said, 90 percent of the agency's drug seizures came from routine patrols. last year, $3 billion in cocaine alone was seized by the coast guard, he said
the commandant said it was too early to quantify the cutback's impact on drug seizures or rescue missions, but he predicted it was heavy
yost said he and transportation secretary james burnley conferred with lawmakers before making the recommendations
i will do everything i can to work with congress to get it passed,'' yost said
the request would not increase overall spending since the money is already appropriated
under the administration's plan, $25.3 million would come from federal highway administration funds that are not earmarked for specific projects; $17.3 million from mass transit grants; $12.4 million from a 2 percent reduction in amtrak's budget; and $5 million from last year's coast guard research and development funds
yost said even if congress approves the administration's budget proposal for fiscal year 1989 in full _ a $200 million increase from this year _ there are no plans to reopen the closed installations or rehire employees
nine members of the house energy and commerce committee have staged a quiet revolution against their chairmen in an effort to break a six-year logjam that has stalled committee action on air quality legislation
the low-key uprising led by rep. al swift, d-wash., came to a seemingly harmonious head thursday when the self-proclaimed ``group of nine'' unveiled a compromise plan to escalate the battle against urban pollution
their effort drew applause from the targets of their end-run around the committee system: chairman john dingell, d-mich., and rep. henry waxman, d-calif., chairman of the health and the environment subcommittee. the details of their plan didn't
swift and his allies effectively took over the committee's air quality deliberations last december after months of fruitless wrangling between dingell and waxman, the sponsor of an air quality bill endorsed by environmentalists but deadlocked in his subcommittee with a 10-10 split
it's a legislative product,'' swift told a news conference. ``none of us is happy with every last detail. ... this is a good piece of environmental policy, and it's cost effective.''
their plan in many ways is similar to waxman's bill and one produced last year by the senate environment committee but still awaiting a call to the floor by a major foe, majority leader robert byrd, d-w.va
each proposal calls for stricter emissions controls on industry and automobiles in an effort to reduce the carbon monoxide and smog-producing ozone that the environmental protection agency says have reached unhealthy levels for some 100 million people living in 60 or so metropolitan areas
the group's plan, however, would give states and localities more time to come up with plans to cut pollution, from three to 16 years, depending on the severity of their problems
the plan would leave most remedies up to epa and the states, but at minimum a city falling short of clean air standards would have to institute a vehicle inspection and maintenance program
swift and rep. dennis eckart, d-ohio, said group members would begin working next week on an acid rain plan, which has also been divisive
dingell, from an automaking district, has been firm against calls for cleaner vehicle exhausts, saying the retirement of older vehicles lacking emissions controls will cause vehicular pollution to continue to decrease
in a prepared statement, dingell said the group of nine plan is ``a vast improvement'' over waxman's bill and has a ``real opportunity to gain my full support.''
waxman called the proposal a ``very constructive step.''
earl mallich, chairman of industry's clean air working group, said the proposed tailpipe standards may not be technologically achievable. r.g. ensz, spokesman for the american petroleum institute, said that a proposal to make fuel less evaporative was not cost effective
the motor vehicle manufacturers association of the united states said the plan for cleaner exhausts would have imperceptible benefits to the nation's air
spokesmen for the sierra club and environmental action said they were pleased the plan called for tighter controls on industries and vehicles, but said the pace of controls was too slow
other members of the swift group are mike synar, d-okla.; phil sharp, d-ind.; jim cooper, d-tenn.; jim slattery, d-kan.; bill tauzin, d-la.; and rick boucher, d-va
the deadline set by secretary of state george p. shultz for arab and israeli replies to his mideast peace plan is passing with the outlook for eventual acceptance bleak
israeli prime minister yitzhak shamir wound up four days of talks thursday critical of shultz's call for an international conference
he didn't say yes and he didn't say no to the plan, which also anticipates israel yielding at least part of the west bank and gaza in exchange for arab recongition
but most of what shamir had to say during his visit was critical of the proposal _ especially its call for an international conference hosted by the united states, the soviet union and the three other permament members of the u.n. security council: china, britain and france
the other major player in the shultz scenario, king hussein of jordan, has not replied to the u.s. plan. a jordanian official, speaking this week in amman on condition of anonymity, said he doubted there would be a definitive reponse for 10 days
an indication of arab reservations came thursday from clovis maksoud, the arab league's representative here. he criticized the exclusion of the palestine liberation organization and urged the united states to demand a total israeli withdrawal from the west bank and gaza
at least 100 palestinian arabs have died in a little more than three months in clashes with israeli forces. shultz's proposal would lead to self-rule for three years, with negotiations on an overall settlement to begin by december
israel took control of the territories from jordan and egypt in the 1967 six-day war. shamir and other likud bloc leaders have vowed not to surrender any of the land
shultz submitted his plan for negotiations two weeks ago to israel, jordan and also syria, which would be participate in the talks on an overall settlement. he asked for a reply by mid-march
as you know, i, in general, think that deadlines are good things in trying to get people to make up their minds,'' shultz told reporters on his mideast shuttle. ``so we have pointed out the fact that the situation carries inherent in it a certain sense of deadlines.''
and yet, shultz noted philosophically, ``you can't push people if they don't want to be pushed.''
shamir headed for los angeles from washington. he and the other senior members of the israeli cabinet will take up the u.s. proposal next wednesday. a vote by the full cabinet would be likely on sunday, march 27
if israel and jordan both say ``yes'' by then, the shultz plan could take off. but there would be little room, if any, to make changes
president reagan and shultz both have ruled out revisions. reagan said he would neither ``slice'' the plan apart nor abandon it. shultz told the senate budget committee on thursday, ``the united states will not permit any aspect of its proposal to be eroded or compromised.''
but shamir clearly is hoping for at least one major change. he wants to replace the international conference with a ``ceremony'' held by the united states and the soviet union. afterward, israel and the arabs would negotiate directly
shultz is trying to win shamir over with reassurances
he told the senate committee after a final meeting with the prime minister that the united states would not attend _ or remain _ at a conference designed to replace direct arab-israeli negotiations
the conference will be specifically enjoined from imposing solutions or vetoing what had been agreed bilaterally,'' shultz said
maksoud of the arab league called, meanwhile, for a u.s. commitment at the outset of negotiations backing arab demands that israel yield all the territory captured in the 1967 war
in a speech, maksoud also reasserted the arab position that the plo is the sole legitimate representative of palestinian arabs. some 1.5 million live on the west bank and gaza, which were controlled until 1967 by jordan and egypt
shultz's plan does not insist that israel relinquish all of the territory. also, it excludes the plo from the negotiations. palestinians approved by the plo would be in a delegation with jordan
maksoud said an international conference must have the power to settle disputes between israel and the arabs. ``it cannot be a ceremonial opening, or an event, or some sort of an international framework,'' he said _ taking direct aim at shamir's proposal
maksoud also criticized reagan's appeal to both sides to accept the u.s. initiative without modification
in light of what he called ``bitter arab experience,'' he said, ``we find ourselves unwilling to be rushed into a timetable presented on a take-it-or-leave-it basis.''
barry schweid has reported on middle east diplomacy for 15 years. lake</head>
a group of people living on the georgia-south carolina line says there's nothing wrong with strom thurmond unless it's the name of a lake shared by the two states
the group met privately with the veteran south carolina republican for 35 minutes thursday to present petitions signed by 42,000 people who want the senator's help in restoring the lake's original name, lake clarks hill
of the signatures, 30,000 came from the georgia side, and a legislative proposal to repeal the new name is sponsored by eight democratic congressmen from that state
thurmond said he would stay out of the dispute, which began in december when congress renamed the 42-year-old army corps of engineers lake quickly and with no public hearings
he told them he feels the matter is settled and since he did not instigate it or push for it, he feels it would be inappropriate for him to get involved now,'' press secretary christopher simpson said
the meeting also was attended by a group of south carolina legislators who want to keep the thurmond name. ``we're disturbed that this is going to be an embarrassment to sen. thurmond,'' said state sen. john drummond of greenwood
drummond said the south carolina lawmakers told the citizens group that it would be an embarrassment for thurmond to ``ask the whole congress and the president to reverse what they've done.''
thurmond himself had nothing to say, referring all questions to simpson
roy giles, a lincolnton, ga., restaurant owner and one of the leaders of ``keep our lake clarks hill,'' said the petitions presented thursday propose a compromise that would restore the name of the lake to clarks hill but would retain the new strom thurmond name for the dam and road
sen. thurmond will have his monument and the people will have their lake back,'' giles said of the compromise, which has been incorporated into a bill that rep. doug barnard, an augusta, ga., democrat, has introduced in the house with the backing of the other seven democrats in the georgia house delegation
giles said he was surprised when the south carolina lawmakers showed up at the meeting because thurmond originally had agreed to meet privately with representatives of the citizens group opposed to the name change
giles said the name change will cause financial hardships for businesses around the lake that have built their reputations using the clarks hill name. and he vowed that the group will continue its fight, even without thurmond's help
we're going to continue to get signatures,'' he said. ``we're not going to let up. this was just an opportunity to present our case to sen. thurmond and ask for his help.''
israeli representatives are trying to strike a deal with iran-contra prosecutors over immunity for four israelis and u.s. access to israel's swiss bank account records
the meetings with independent counsel lawrence walsh's staff began thursday, a day after a federal grand jury indicted lt. col. oliver north, former national security adviser john poindexter and two arms dealers. all four were involved in the diversion of profits from iran arms sales to the nicaraguan contra rebels
israel is seeking immunity from prosecution for four israelis involved in the sale of u.s. anti-tank missiles to iran in 1985 and 1986, said an israeli official who spoke on condition of anonymity
walsh, in turn, wants records of israeli transactions with north and the two indicted arms dealers, richard secord and albert hakim, the official said
yossi gal, a spokesman for the israeli embassy, said a meeting today was aimed at ``finding an acceptable solution for cooperation between the two governments.''
israel is seeking immunity for amiram nir, a israeli anti-terrorism official; david kimche, the former foreign ministry director; and businessmen yaacov nimrodi and al schwimmer. all worked with north on the iran arms sales
gal also said that rafael vardi, a retired israeli general who compiled a chronology of israel's role in the arms sales to iran, met with walsh on thursday. several israeli lawyers accompanied him, according to the israeli official who spoke anonymously
elyakim rubinstein, a top aide to israeli prime minister yitzhak shamir, is expected to join vardi today for talks with walsh's staff, gal said
rubinstein, who has been in the united states with shamir for discussions on a middle east peace plan, also will meet with reagan administration officials about the case, gal said. he refused to discuss the meetings further
james wieghart, walsh's spokesman, said he knew nothing of the meetings but confirmed that walsh has been negotiating with the israelis for a long time about access to the records on the swiss accounts
the israeli official who spoke on condition he remain anonymous said walsh is seeking bank account records to corroborate other evidence about israel's transactions with north, secord and hakim
walsh angered israel last year by issuing subpoenas against nir, kimche, nimrodi and schwimmer, meaning they could be arrested if they visited the united states and refused to testify
under pressure from the united states, rubinstein and vardi compiled classified historical and financial chronologies that were provided to the congressional iran-contra committees last year. the documents detailed the role israel played in shipping u.s. missiles to iran as part of a plan to secure freedom for american hostages in lebanon
during the congressional hearings, israel refused to allow the four israelis involved in the arms sales to testify, but agreed to let vardi answer questions. the congressional panels did not call vardi, saying they were satisfied with the written chronologies
fbi director william sessions is coming under increasing fire on capitol hill in connection with the racial harassment case of black fbi agent donald rochon
on thursday, rep. john conyers, d-mich., accused sessions of ``sidestepping'' and engaging in ``a classic stall'' by promising to give a full report to congress at a later date on rochon and equal employment matters
i am frankly deeply disappointed in your lack of candor and outrage about the terrorism that is going on,'' conyers said in referring to the rochon case and other allegations of discrimination within the bureau
rochon is suing the fbi and the justice department, alleging racial discrimination, harassment and death threats from fellow agents and supervisors when he worked at fbi offices in omaha, neb., and chicago. the federal equal employment opportunity commission has upheld rochon's racial discrimination allegations in connection with his stay in omaha in 1983 and 1984
there has been no sidestepping at all, none,'' responded sessions, who has been fbi director for four months
he said he was in ``almost total agreement'' with conyers' concerns and said he is committed to seeing that the bureau ``is precisely what it strives to be, an organization which has no racism.''
however, sessions said that with lawsuits pending he cannot conduct a detailed discussion during this ``awkward period of time.''
in addition to the rochon case, hispanic agents have filed a class-action suit in el paso, texas, accusing the fbi of racial discrimination
blacks and hispanics each make up slightly more than 4 percent of the bureau's more than 9,000 agents
in prepared testimony before the house subcommittee on civil and constitutional rights, of which conyers is a member, sessions said he has designated executive assistant fbi director john d. glover, who is black, to oversee a complete review of equal employment opportunity matters within the fbi
sessions said glover ``will report directly to me'' concerning the rochon matter and other aspects of the fbi's equal employment opportunity program including training, handling of complaints, hiring and promotion policy
in both cases, i can assure this subcommittee that once these processes have been completed, i will make a full reporting to congress,'' sessions said
legislation to double the maximum amount of disaster aid to households and provide money to combat erosion and flooding along the great lakes faces an uncertain future in the senate after passing the house
the disaster relief amendments, opposed by the reagan administration as too expensive, passed the house thursday by a vote of 368-13. a companion bill with 27 co-sponsors has languished in the senate since its introduction there last year
under the amendments, the federal emergency management agency would be barred from paying less than a 75 percent share of aid to local governments qualifying for public repair projects following a disaster. the amendments also would add guidelines to speed the distribution of post-disaster aid, and permit federal funds to be used for local projects to lessen the effect of disasters before they strike
the cap on grants for states' disaster preparation programs would climb from $25,000 to $50,000, and the maximum on awards to individuals to rebuild households and clear away debris would go from $5,000 to $10,000, with the amount to be adjusted according to the economy
in addition, the legislation would provide, for the first time, a mechanism to appeal decisions on eligibility for disaster and emergency assistance
the legislation has its roots in the federal response to tornadoes that raced through western pennsylvania, ohio and surrounding areas in 1985, killing 88 people
fema agrees that ``fine-tuning'' is needed to the 1974 act establishing a coordinated federal program to prepare for and respond to hurricanes, tornadoes, storms and floods. but the administration has pushed for legislation that wouldn't increase costs to the federal government
the congressional budget office has estimated the cost of the house easure at $50 to $100 million per year. in addition to updating the disaster response program, the legislation would provide grants and army corps of engineers assistance for flooding and erosion prevention in great lakes states
high-water levels have caused an estimated $200 million in damage to shoreline houses and communities, the northeast-midwest congressional coalition said. states would be required to put up 30 percent matching share of the federal grants
u.s. rep. tom ridge, r-pa., the principal sponsor of the bill, said the 1985 tornadoes that killed 65 people in pennsylvania alone made him ``painfully aware'' of shortcomings with fema
disaster victims were waiting in line for temporary housing up to six weeks,'' ridge said during thursday's floor debate
i was touring demolished home sites arguing with federal officials about debris removal,'' he said. ``they weren't concerned about debris removal. they were concerned about the specific, inflexible application of regulations, regardless of the impact on public health and safety.''
the world's business and financial communities should be encouraged by the ease with which the house budget committee has approved a $1.1 trillion federal budget for the 1989 fiscal year, the panel's chairman says
chairman william h. gray iii, d-pa., made the remarks thursday after his committee approved the budget resolution with support from lawmakers of both parties
i think it's good in terms of helping the volatility out there in the equity markets ... and sending a signal to our trading partners that we're willing to work cooperatively in terms of addressing the deficit,'' gray said
the budget plan meets the spending and tax strictures established by last year's budget summit pact between congress and president reagan. that accord was sparked by october's stock market crash and the resulting calls to slash the government's deficits, which have surpassed $200 billion in recent years
the spending document would leave a deficit of $134.1 billion, according to the budget panel, enough to avoid automatic spending cuts under the gramm-rudman budget-balancing law
but to get to that figure, lawmakers adopted the white house's economic forecasts and abandoned gloomier estimates produced by their own congressional budget office that would have added $35 billion in red ink to the deficit projection
under gramm-rudman, the deficit target for fiscal 1989, which begins oct. 1, is $136 billion. spending would be cut to that level automatically if the deficit exceeds the target by $10 billion
the document, expected to be considered by the full house next week, reduces reagan's request for science and space and allocates the money to urban and social programs
the budget resolution was pieced together over the last several days during closed-door meetings between committee republicans and democrats. the panel approved the document, on a voice vote with no objections, during a five-minute public session
rep. willis d. gradison jr. of ohio, senior committee republican at the meeting, said the resolution had been written in an ``excellent spirit of bipartisanship'' and had ``very strong support'' from gop lawmakers
the bipartisan camaraderie was in stark contrast to last year, when republicans walked away from the budget resolution process and the bickering lasted for months
the budget pact reached last november between reagan and lawmakers locked in new taxes and spending levels for fiscal 1988 and 1989 for defense, foreign affairs and overall domestic spending
lawmakers are proving eager to avoid reopening those questions and sparking potentially bitter fights in an election year. thus, the main fight has been over distributing the $169.2 billion the summit allows for the domestic programs that congress directly oversees and are not financed under automatic formulas
i think the summit agreement basically set the tone for the year,'' said rep. leon panetta, d-calif
in the 1989 budget he presented to congress on feb. 18, reagan proposed a 20 percent increase in spending on space and science programs to $13.1 billion. the budget panel, looking to restore proposed cuts to several other domestic programs, pared that increase to $12.2 billion
the committee felt that was a realistic figure for nasa to carry out its mission,'' gray said
where reagan proposed cutting deeply into programs such as mass transit assistance and eliminating other programs such as federal aid to amtrak, the passenger railroad, the budget committee would retain current levels of spending or reduce it by 1 percent or 2 percent
for programs for low-income people such as job training and child health care, the budget panel's proposal would allow enough of a spending increase to keep up with inflation, expected to reach 4 percent this year
the committee's budget also rejects $1.2 billion in savings in medicare that reagan had proposed, spends $1.5 billion for aids research _ slightly more than the president proposed _ and retains previously planned levels of spending for education, fighting drugs and providing aid to the homeless
the panel also proposed a 3 percent pay raise for federal workers and civilian employees of the military. gray said lawmakers will have to decide later this year whether members of congress would qualify for the salary increases
the committee's budget leaves intact the summit agreement spending levels of $294 billion for military programs for the 1989 fiscal year, and $14 billion in new taxes, mostly on corporations
the senate plans to write its budget resolution next month. the resolution does not need the president's signature, and it serves as a blueprint for actual spending legislation to be enacted later
in a separate action, the white house sent congress a supplemental spending request for this fiscal year that would increase spending by $1.1 billion, mostly for veterans
another $57 million would pay for raises for federal court employees, and $54 million more would be for disability payments to people with black lung disease
the measure would allow an additional $4.2 billion to be transferred among agencies
a frustrated congressman had to turn to the japanese embassy this week to find out exactly what the senate was proposing to do on trade legislation
that is just not the way to do business,'' rep. tom downey, d-n.y., said thursday following a closed-door caucus at which grievances over the incident got a full-scale airing
at the caucus, rep. william frenzel, r-minn., expressed outrage that he had to rely on the japanese embassy to get a copy of the senate proposal on how best to crack down on japanese barriers to american exports
pat eveland, frenzel's administrative assistant, confirmed that the congressman was disturbed about the delay in transmitting the senate report to the house and raised the issue at the closed-door session
we think it would be nice if the senate would decide to give us the trade offer first before the private sector and the press,'' she said. frenzel himself was not available to discuss the matter, she added
the document was a compromise offer from senate members of a house-senate conference committee that is trying to merge rival versions of a 1,000-page trade bill passed by the two houses last year
among other things, the senate's offer proposed to erase from the bill the controversial trade plan sponsored by democratic presidential hopeful richard gephardt, d-mo. his plan, calling for 10 percent yearly rollbacks in japanese trade surpluses, is contained only in the house version
the senate's alternative proposal would require the u.s. trade representative to draw up a list of japanese barriers to american products and then either negotiate an end to them or retaliate
eveland said she was on the telephone with a japanese embassy official early wednesday morning, discussing the senate's offer, when to her surprise ``it became evident that they had a copy of it.''
she said she asked the japanese for a copy and they immediately duplicated theirs and sent it by messenger to frenzel's office on capitol hill. she said a version was not available from the senate finance committee until 12:30 p.m. wednesday
it remained unclear just how the japanese managed to obtain their copy of the offer
when eveland was told that several copies were distributed to reporters who worked late in the senate press gallery on tuesday night, she said, ``well, now we'll know where to go.'' claim</head> dropped matter; picks up 5th graf: `larouche, six ...</note>
henry kissinger may be called to testify at lyndon larouche's trial to rebut charges by larouche's lawyers that the government launched a vendetta against the political extremist, a prosecutor says
larouche's attorneys, who contend the federal charges against larouche were fabricated, showed the jury letters thursday in which kissinger, as secretary of state, requested an fbi investigation of larouche groups
kissinger may be called to testify that he was a target of protests and harassment by larouche followers and was justified in seeking the probe, assistant u.s. attorney john markham said
larouche lawyers said they would welcome an opportunity to cross-examine kissinger, whom the fringe politician has labeled a soviet spy
larouche, six aides and five larouche organizations are charged with conspiring to obstruct a grand jury investigation of alleged credit card and loan fraud by larouche's 1984 presidential campaign. four of the organizations are charged with fraud
also thursday, richard welsh, an accountant and treasurer with several larouche groups, testified that larouche's two campaign organizations budgeted up to $125,000 a month to pay back credit card charges that card-holders claimed were unauthorized
prosecutors allege the campaign relied on fraudulent charges to stay afloat when legitimate fund-raising stalled, knowing it would take several weeks before unauthorized charges would be deducted from the campaign's bank account
the campaign allegedly misused the charge-card numbers given by contributors for donations or by people who bought books and other literature from the larouche groups
the defendants contend evidence of widespread fraud and obstruction was fabricated by fbi and cia infiltrators as part of a reagan administration effort to ruin larouche and cripple his highly successful fund-raising
admitted as evidence to the jury thursday was a series of letters between kissinger, then-fbi director william h. webster and oliver revell, the fbi's executive assistant director, discussing larouche organizations
in an august 1982 letter to webster, kissinger complained that larouche supporters had become ``increasingly obnoxious'' in their criticism of him and asked whether the fbi could investigate larouche groups
revell responded with two letters saying the agency would investigate kissinger's complaint and that there appeared to be some evidence of illegal telephone use by larouche supporters to harass kissinger
no larouche followers ever were charged with harassing or threatening kissinger
the defense contends revell later directed fbi infiltration of larouche groups at the request of lt. col. oliver north, the former white house national security aide indicted wednesday for his role in the iran-contra affair
larouche contends he has been the target of a 20-year government vendetta that climaxed in 1984 because of his outspoken criticism of reagan's contra-aid programs
last week, the defense was given two declassified documents, one a memo to north from another pivotal figure in the iran-contra affair discussing apparent efforts to collect information against larouche
the discovery of those documents 60 days into the trial prompted keeton to order an extensive search of government records, including those of the white house and vice president george bush, for any evidence of infiltration or harassment of larouche groups. the searches are expected to be completed by next week
the army battalions ordered to honduras by president reagan include two from the renowned 82nd airborne division and two from a newly activated ``light'' division organized for quick movement around the world
the 82nd airborne and the 7th light infantry division are based at opposite ends of the country _ fort bragg, n.c., and fort ord, calif., respectively _ and are assigned to different corps
but the two divisions and their battalions share a common emphasis and mission _ maintain a high state of readiness and be ready to operate on short notice in virtually all parts of the world
the 82nd airborne, as its name implies, is trained to drop in uninvited by parachute when combat requires. the 7th light infantry, on the other hand, doesn't use parachutes but can arrive even more quickly
the 82nd is renowned because of its combat record and its role as the one army unit that is on constant alert
during world war ii, the unit participated in six different campaigns, including sicily and the normandy invasion. its commanders included gens. omar bradley and matthew ridgway
it was during and immediately after normandy that the 82nd really made its mark, taking horrendous casualties but preventing the germans from moving forward to stop the invasion
the 82nd also has fought in vietnam and grenada and some of its units have served with the peacekeeping force in the sinai. within the united states, it helped keep the peace during the integration battles in the south, quelled riots in detroit in 1967, and kept order during the republican national convention in miami in 1968
the 7th was the first of what the army hopes will be four active-duty light divisions. with about 10,500 soldiers assigned to it instead of the 17,000 assigned to a normal mechanized division, the 7th is full of riflemen, carries no heavy vehicles and is armed with only modest amounts of artillery and anti-tank weapons
the idea behind the light divisions was to provide a president the option of using a fairly large force that could be moved rapidly around the world
for example, a normal heavy division, such as those assigned to europe, would require about 2,850 flights of a c-141 to deploy. the 82nd airborne, if the entire division moved out, would require about 1,500. a light division could show up with just 500 flights
there's just so much more mobility,'' noted lt. col. greg rixon, an army spokesman. ``the tradeoff is you can't leave it (in a battle zone) on its own for very long. it has to be resupplied and sustained.''
the pentagon said thursday it expected the four battalions from the 82nd and 7th to link up on the ground in honduras as a brigade task force for a readiness exercise code-named ``golden pheasant,'' to be conducted in cooperation with honduran troops
the task force is commanded by army brig gen. daniel r. schroeder of the xviii airborne corps and a deputy, brig. gen. james j. johnson of the 82nd
besides the four battalions of infantry, the task force is bringing with it a small helicopter cavalry unit with eight aircraft; three batteries from field artillery units and a brigade headquarters company
normally, army units sent to honduras for exercises report to joint task force bravo, a small headquarters unit based in honduras to coordinate u.s. troop activities. as of thursday, for example, the pentagon said about 2,050 national guard and reserve engineers were on temporary duty in honduras
sen. bob dole, who has taken a beating at the hands of george bush in nearly all the republican presidential primaries, won hands down among a select group of young voters
one hundred and two high school student leaders were asked in january to name their favorite candidates in both the republican and democratic parties. the students are winners of the century iii leaders scholarship program sponsored by the national association of secondary school principals and shell oil co
on the gop side, the student leaders chose dole over bush by 70 percent to 15 percent, with 10 percent naming pete du pont, who is now out of the race, according to survey results released thursday
massachusetts gov. michael dukakis was the favorite on the democratic side, getting 37 percent of the students' votes to 17 percent for sens. albert gore jr. and paul simon, 10 percent for bruce babbitt (now a dropout), 9 percent for rep. richard gephardt and just 4 percent for jesse jackson
the arab league's envoy to the united states gave what he called ``the kiss of death'' to pat robertson's presidential bid _ an endorsement
after a speech thursday in which he denounced israel, lauded the palestine liberation organization and blasted congress and the reagan administration, ambassador clovis maksoud was invited to state his preference in the presidential sweepstakes
well, i don't want to say who's the preferred presidential candidate, because that almost would be the kiss of death, so i would suggest _ i would suggest pat robertson,'' maksoud said, provoking laughter from the audience
robertson is an outspoken supporter of israel. convention</head>
trenton, n.j. (am) _ new jersey senate democratic leader john lynch says he will abandon a proposal to send a slate of uncommitted delegates to the democratic national convention
lynch said thursday he will drop a movement he headed and bow to the request of sen. bill bradley, d-n.j
bradley met with democratic leaders wednesday and asked them to drop their efforts toward an uncommitted slate, saying the drive could be interpreted outside the state as a movement to back him as a presidential candidate
senator bradley feels the uncommitted movement would be perceived as a `stalking horse' for a candidacy at a brokered convention,'' lynch said
lynch has said an uncommitted slate could enable new jersey to play a decisive role at the convention if no democratic candidate wins a majority of delegates in the primaries
robert dole's staunchest new jersey supporter, assembly gop leader chuck haytaian, says the kansas senator should drop out of the race for the republican presidential nomination
haytaian, who is chairman of dole's new jersey campaign, said thursday that vice president george bush has the nomination all but locked up, and dole ought to face reality
he knows how to count numbers,'' said haytaian. ``if he looks at the delegate numbers for bush, the numbers should tell him what to do.''
haytaian added he would continue to support dole as long as he remains a candidate
the coordinator of jesse jackson's presidential campaign in south carolina says he may ask a judge to postpone monday's county conventions
kevin gray said thursday he is frustrated by the inefficiency of the democratic caucus and the absence of delegate lists
the caucus process is rearing its ugly head,'' said gray, one of a growing number of democrats who believe the party should be holding a primary
eighteen counties' conventions are meeting monday and the other 28 counties are meeting march 28. jackson was the overwhelming winner at saturday's 1,788 precinct caucus meetings
gray said it's important to all of the campaigns to have access to the delegate lists so they can make sure their delegates know where and when to go to the county conventions and so they can seek the support of uncommitted delegates
political extremist lyndon larouche has been ruled off indiana's democratic presidential primary ballot because of inadequate petition signatures
the state election board concluded on thursday that larouche's supporters had failed to meet the requirements for signatures to qualify him for the may 3 ballot
indiana law requires 500 signatures from each of the state's 10 congressional districts. the larouche petitions met that requirement in nine districts and had more than 5,000 signatures overall, but the petitions had only 325 signatures in the 10th district, according to election board chairman john r. whitaker
a close friend of attorney general edwin meese iii said meese interceded on wedtech corp.'s behalf to gain federal approval for financing, a witness testified at the racketeering trial of rep. mario biaggi
the witness, former wedtech vice chairman mario moreno, said meese's lawyer and friend, e. robert wallach, told him at a 1983 meeting across the street from the white house that meese had asked then-commerce secretary malcolm baldrige to sign the necessary documents
moreno said thursday he was told that baldrige balked at signing because the matter was ``too hot politically,'' but two or three days later ``the matter was resolved.''
moreno recounted the meeting with wallach in his third day of testimony at federal court in manhattan, where biaggi and six others are on trial on charges of turning wedtech into a racketeering enterprise through an alleged series of bribery and extortion schemes
wedtech, a now-bankrupt defense contractor, at the time was delinquent on two loans of more than $2 million each, one from the commerce department's economic development administration, the other guaranteed by eda
the company in 1983 wanted eda approval to refinance the loans with a new bank
but the eda chief, assistant commerce secretary carlos campbell, resisted pressure from former white house political director lyn nofziger and his lobbying partner, mark bragg, to approve the plan
moreno, one of four ex-wedtech officials who have pleaded guilty to bribing public officials and other crimes, testified wallach ``said he was going to a national security meeting at 6 a.m. and told me to wait in lafayette park'' across from the white house
moreno said he saw wallach enter the white house and when he emerged two hours later, wallach ``said he talked to his friend over there.''
moreno said he understood that wallach's friend was meese, who was then presidential counselor
wallach said they would try to get another assistant commerce secretary besides campbell to approve the financing and moreno said he was told to call bragg
moreno said he was told that no assistant secretary could sign the papers legally but there was a vacancy in the department and perhaps a new assistant secretary could sign. two or three days later the problem was resolved, he said
nofziger was convicted last month of illegal lobbying for wedtech and other companies. the conviction is under appeal
last december, a special prosecutor said there was insufficient evidence to charge meese in the wedtech case
a small airplane crashed into a schoolyard moments after pupils were shepherded to their classrooms at the end of noon recess. the children escaped injury, but the pilot was critically hurt
it was the classic case of fate intervening,'' said kern county fire capt. tom pulcher. ``where his impact point was, eight minutes prior to that there was a schoolyard full of children.''
one class barely made it off the playground at north beardsley school in time thursday, fire officials said. the teacher had just lined her class up and was herding them inside when she heard the plane coming in
a small group were still outside,'' said assistant city fire chief henry pacheco. ``she told the kids to run, and they all ran out of the way.''
observers said the fuselage of the single-engine dornier came to rest against a breezeway at the grade school one mile south of meadows field, the main airport in this city 100 miles north of los angeles
the pilot, kenneth dale howard, 42, of anchorage, alaska, was taken to kern medical center where he was listed in critical condition in the intensive care unit
howard was making his final approach and preparing to land at meadows when his engine lost power, said wilbur friend, air traffic manager for the federal aviation administration tower at the airport
a national transportation safety board investigator requested a blood-alcohol test on howard after some containers of alcohol were found at the crash site, pulcher said. he added there was no immediate evidence that howard had been drinking
the following dispatch was filed jointly by steven komarow of the ap, otto kreisher of copley news service, fredrick kempe of wall street journal and robert cohn of newsweek. they are with the pentagon news pool covering the arrival of u.s. troops in honduras
a steady stream of air transports brought u.s. soldiers and equipment in a show of force so hastily arranged that american commanders scrambled to develop training exercises to keep them busy
a dramatic air drop of 800 paratroopers of the 82nd airborne division was scheduled for early today
planes later in the day were to bring 1,100 more soldiers from the 7th infantry division in fort ord, calif., completing the 3,000 man deployment ordered by president reagan to counter what he called an invasion by nicaraguan sandinista troops
hundreds of soldiers on thursday bedded down in dusty fields near the airstrip, awaiting orders for training missions which normally are arranged several months in advance for such exercises
this exercise got popped on us two days ago,'' said maj. mike nason, public affairs officer for the 82nd airborne. ``we're having to compress all the training arrangements.''
an example of how the operation was being altered because of the lack of planning was today's scheduled parachute drop. normally that would be the first wave of an airborne assault, but nason said the army needed to use carefully the limited air transport that was available on such short notice
army commanders met through the day thursday with their honduran counterparts and made plans for the first of a string of joint exercises
troops were told to expect to spend about 10 days in honduras, but military spokesmen said there was no official timetable yet for them to leave
the first joint exercise, a helicopter movement scheduled today, would take the u.s. troops 25 miles closer to the area where the white house claims the nicaraguans have invaded. however, they would still be more than 100 miles west of the area of reported fighting
commanders insisted their orders barred them from getting near the scene of the fighting. however, they said they were prepared to take action if the orders were made. the troops appeared eager for action
we wait for this,'' said pfc. dallas hutchison of germantown, md., who was manning an m-60 machine gun guarding the bivouac site
officers were eager to take advantage of the training exercise in a year when budget constraints forced them to cancel maneuvers
maybe at the highest echelons of the government they have some political reasons for us to be here. but we see it as a blessing in disguise,'' nason said
nason said the division's training budget had been cut 25 percent, and plans for exercises in panama had been canceled
a high-ranking sandinista officer flew about 25 journalists, most of them american, to this rugged outpost on the honduran border his troops retook from contra rebels in a major offensive
the reporters were brought in thursday to see it was quiet in the jungle region about 175 miles from managua and told the offensive had ended
about noon, two unidentified jet planes roared in from honduras and dropped at least five bombs. the journalists and their hosts dived for cover, the bombs exploding as close as 70 yards away
no one was hurt and nothing at the sandinista military encampment damaged
the region is where the white house claims nicaraguan troops entered honduras in pursuit of the u.s.-supplied rebels, and the attack came just hours after the first of 3,000 american troops began arriving in honduras in response to the alleged incursion
honduran said it had mounted the attack, but claimed it had targeted only sandinista forces in honduran territory
the bombs landed along the narrow coco river, which marks the border between the two countries. puffs of black smoke curled over the banana trees
lt. col. javier carrion, the deputy chief of the sandinista army's general staff, said two bombs landed in nicaraguan territory and one in honduras
he said the attack appeared more harassment than an attempt to hit any specific target. none of the five soviet-made helicopters in the area were hit
in washington, reagan administration sources who insisted on anonymity claimed one soviet-made helicopter was damaged on the ground in nicaragua. the soviet union suplies the sandinistas with military hardware and training
carrion said jets had similarly buzzed the coco river earlier in the day
he denied that sandinista troops had crossed the ill-defined border, but said: ``there are sectors in the mountains here where you can get lost. it's easy to confuse the topography.''
president daniel ortega has refused to confirm or deny whether an incursion had occurred. military officials in honduras said their troops were surrounding about 2,000 sandinista soldiers in honduran territory on thursday
standing in a jungle clearing, carrion showed the reporters on a map where he said sandinista troops had used artillery to destroy contra camps along a six-mile route on both sides of the coco river
he said the offensive, begun march 8, was halted on wednesday on ortega's instructions after the sandinistas had pushed 1,800 rebels back into honduras. carrion said his troops received air support from soviet-made heliopter-gunships and an-46 propeller-driven planes with bombs attached
the sandinistas killed 92 contras and wounded 300, but no prisoners were taken during the eight-day offensive, carrion said
he said it would be difficult for the contras to return to the area, which they had used since last year for makeshift camps
carrion said sandinista troops destroyed 120 plastic and wood shacks that the rebels had been using to store supplies, for sleeping and as clinics
the government says $20 million worth of clothing seized by the customs bureau will be given to homeless people and orphans in mozambique, malawi and zimbabwe
the clothing had been exported by china and was seized by inspectors after chinese officials notified the customs bureau that counterfeit visas were being used to send textiles into the united states
the customs bureau said thursday the first increment of the clothing _ cotton jeans, shirts, dresses, infants' shirts, denim jackets and pants and suspenders sets _ would be distributed by the world vision relief organization and the adventists development and relief agency international
convicted federal judge walter l. nixon jr. of mississippi would say only that he was ``very upset'' after the chairman of the house judiciary committee introduced a resolution of impeachment against him
the action thursday by judiciary chairman peter w. rodino jr., d-n.j., came just two days after he received a recommendation from the judicial conference, the governing body for federal judges
the conference certified to the house that nixon had engaged in conduct which might constitute grounds for impeachment. judges are appointed for life, and can only be removed by congress in an impeachment proceeding
nixon was convicted in february 1986 of two counts of perjury before a federal grand jury
nixon, reached by phone at his home in ocean springs, miss., said: ``my family and i are very upset at this time. beyond that, i have no further comment. any other comments i may have must come through my attorney.''
an advocate for quality children's television programs is urging congress to reinstate limits on advertising during children's shows, but the national association of broadcasters says such rules aren't needed
peggy charren, president of the cambridge, mass.-based action for children's television, told a house subcommittee thursday that the tv industry cannot be expected to protect the interests of children
since the federal communications commission abandoned its advertising limits, dozens of cartoons starring toymakers' products have appeared, she said
the national association of broadcasters, however, said regulation is unnecessary because commercial broadcasters ``have not and will not desert children.''
the commerce department says foreign countries that export tuna to the united states must reduce the numbers of dolphin deaths that occur during fishing or lose the right to export tuna to america
the department's national marine fisheries service on thursday ordered foreign nations that export tuna to reduce the number of dolphins killed in fishing
the order covers foreign fleets that catch yellowfin tuna in purse seine nets, and requires them to establish dolphin protection rules similar to those that already cover u.s. fishermen
the regulation will take effect in mid-april, and requires that the rate of dolphins killed by the foreign fleets be reduced to the u.s. fishing fleet level by 1991, the fisheries service said
former prime minister pierre trudeau's ex-wife, margaret kemper, has been charged with marijuana possession, her lawyer said
the royal canadian mounted police charged her in provincial court thursday after obtaining a search warrant to seize a package at her home in ottawa last friday
she denies the offense and is anxious to get this matter cleared up in court,'' said the lawyer, michael edelson
canadian press news agency reported that the search warrant said a police informer in british columbia offered the tip that margaret kemper would be receiving one pound of marijuana in the mail. police then watched for the arrival of a package in ottawa, the agency said
ms. kemper is scheduled to appear in court april 11. a final trial date has not been set
the jet-setting former first lady divorced trudeau in 1983 while he was still prime minister, following a stormy marriage and seven-year separation
young and rebellious, she made headlines frequently, including when she spent a few days with the rolling stones rock group in toronto
now 39, she married ottawa real estate developer fried kemper in 1984. after producing an autobiography and a brief career as a tv talk show hostess, she retired into life as a housewife. she had three sons with trudeau and has one son with kemper. attack</head>
better-educated people are more likely to return to work within a year of their first heart attack, says a study that found the severity of the attack and the nature of the victim's job to be less important factors
the study published in today's issue of the journal of the american medical association tracked 151 patients, ages 24 to 70, for one year after they suffered their first heart attack and noted whether they returned to work
it seemed to us that many doctors assumed, `bad heart attack, he doesn't return to work, good heart attack, he does.' that's just not so,'' said dr. g. richard smith, one of the study's two authors
if the patient is well-educated and has a job that is not physically stressful, there's a good chance they'll go back within the first year,'' said co-author diane o'rourke
smith and ms. o'rourke said their study was designed to test the predictive value of factors raised in previous studies of heart-attack patients. the study did not find why the level of education made such a difference, they said
but smith, a psychiatrist and professor at the university of arkansas for medical sciences, said his ``clinical sense is that people who finish high school and beyond are able to persevere ... and are adaptable. all of those areas come into play in health.''
while there may be some truth to the notion that better-educated people have less physically taxing jobs, the study was adjusted to account for those factors, said ms. o'rourke, an assistant professor at the university
the profile developed by smith and ms. o'rourke ranked factors according to their predictive value
educational level was followed by the physical activity demanded by the job, the severity of the heart attack and the patient's perception of his health after the attack
of the 109 patients who returned to work, 78 had at least a high school education and a job that demanded only low levels of physical activity. just 15 patients fitting that description did not return to work within the first year
on the other end of the spectrum, 27 patients who failed to complete high school and had physically taxing jobs did not return to work within the first year. however, 31 patients in the same group returned within the year. drum-beating</head>
thousands of peole prayed, cheered, danced, beat drums and observed other traditions today as a total eclipse of the sun darkened a wide area of indonesia and the southern philippines
the sun was blacked out by the shadow of the moon for up to four minutes along a 108-mile swath that moved from the indian ocean across indonesia and the southern philippine island of mindanao
a partial eclipse was visible across a wide area of asia as far west as india _ including southeast asia, china, japan and new guinea as well as parts of australia and the pacific islands
scientists said the eclipse would end at sunset in the gulf of alaska
clouds obscured the solar spectacular in jakarta, indonesia, hong kong and in the eastern mindanao city of davao, where thousands of tourists and scientists had gathered to observe the eclipse
but it was visible for about 3 minutes in this city about 650 miles southeast of manila despite early scattered clouds. president corazon aquino flew in to witness the event
richard fisher of the high altitude observatory in boulder, colo., said that despite scattered clouds, scientists were confident they had taken useful pictures of the eclipse
in jakarta, wilson sinambela of the national institute of aeronautics said a total eclipse was observed in several parts of the country, including by about 1,000 tourists in the south sumatra capital palembang
he said thousands of indonesians prayed and beat drums to herald the start of the eclipse, which began in southwestern sumatra before heading on to the philippines
in kuala lumpur, where a partial eclipse blocked out about 80 percent of the sun, some malaysian hindus visited temples to pray for protection against harm during the eclipse
in kurukshetra, india, an estimated 1 million pilgrims dipped into the waters of the sacred sannihit and brahmsarover tanks after a public address system announced the start of the eclipse. hymns were chanted and conch shells blown during the ceremony about 90 miles north of new delhi
clouds blocked the first moments of the eclipse in general santos city. but the cloud cover broke, setting off wild cheering among the thousands who watched the phenomenon in a scorching tropical heat
street lights switched on, and members of the naragcas tribe, in the city for a festival, danced in the streets to the beat of drums
in baguio city, 130 miles north of manila, pregnant women of the local ilocano community rinsed their hair during the eclipse with water dripped from burned rice straws in a traditional ritual
according to local superstition, babies conceived during or shortly before an eclipse will be deformed unless their mothers practice the ritual
many other filipinos marked the eclipse by going to church. the philippines is asia's only predominately christian country
this phenomenon is a clear reminder from god for mankind to repent its sins,'' said theresa teopengco, a government employee
officials said about 20,000 tourists and scientists from around the world had come to the southern philippines to watch the eclipse, the last one expected here for at least 50 years
scientists said the area afforded the best opportunity to witness and study the eclipse because skies are usually clear this time of year
but in davao city, 60 miles to the northeast, morning clouds sent hundreds scurrying to the airport for flights to general santos
church bells in davao tolled while police and civilians set off firecrackers and fired weapons in the air to mark the eclipse
in manila, thousands turned out under clear skies to see the partial eclipse that blocked about 75 percent of the sun's surface at its height
police said four people were injured when a passenger bus collided with a jeep during the eclipse
the drivers were probably looking skyward when the accident occurred,'' said policeman ricardo manansala. ``it's impossible to gaze at the sky and drive a vehicle at the same time.''
solar eclipses occur when the moon positions itself between the earth and the sun. the chinese first recorded a total solar eclipse in 2137 b.c., regarding them as signs of a battle to death between the sun and the dragon
here is the current breakdown of all the votes cast in the primaries so far. for each candidate the total is calculated by adding together the votes the candidate received in each of the primaries
60,333 of 60,449 precincts reporting - 99.8 percent

dukakis, 2,881,845 - 25.6 percent
gore, 2,570,679 - 22.8 percent
jackson, 3,054,831 - 27.1 percent
gephardt, 1,251,121 - 11.1 percent
simon, 842,909 - 7.5 percent
babbitt, 68,820 - 0.6 percent
hart, 305,700 - 2.7 percent
uncommitted, 200,001 - 1.8 percent
others, 95,815 - 0.9 percent

total states with primaries so far - 20

62,107 of 62,276 precincts reporting - 99.7 percent

bush, 3,896,009 - 56.7 percent
dole, 1,684,819 - 24 percent
robertson, 830,484 - 12.1 percent
kemp, 340,057 - 4.9 percent
du pont, 51,335 - 0.7 percent
haig, 25,578 - 0.4 percent
uncommitted, 43,700 - 0.6 percent
others, 3,820 - 0.1 percent

total states with primaries so far - 21
angela patricia schembeck's birth made it a hat trick for the schembeck family. she became the third-generation st. patrick's day baby of the clan that traces its roots to ireland
thursday was her father's 23rd birthday and his father's 47th birthday
it's a miracle. it's absolutely incredible,'' said the baby's father, kevin schembeck. ``this is the best birthday present we could have ever received.''
angela arrived three days late at long island jewish medical center
the schembecks, all of college park, were celebrating in the nursery with a birthday cake baked by the baby's grandmother
my mom baked the cake yesterday so it only has my dad's name and mine on it,'' said schembeck. ``we'll have to add angela's name to it from now on
what makes this so overwhelming is that it was all natural; nothing was used to stimulate the labor,'' he said
the baby's mother, doreen, 22, said that when the birth went past the due date she had a feeling that the baby would be born on the 17th
schembeck said the mutual birthday has been good for him and his father, paul
it's always been the best day of the year for us,'' said schembeck. ``we've always had lots of laughs, lots of parties and lots of good times.''
after 60 years in office, gordon olson would gladly give up his post as cottonwood lake township treasurer-clerk, but instead he has won re-election to yet another term
not that the job entails all that much responsibility _ the township only has nine households
we're about running out of people for these township jobs,'' said olson, 85. ``we have a few younger people here but they are young and single; we don't know how long they will be around
it's just a job, but somebody has do do it.''
township board chairman leon driessen of butte has been in office for 44 or 45 years, olson said
mike nechiporenko, a board supervisor, has quite a few years in, too,'' olson said
when olson was first elected township clerk in 1928, his father, magnus, was treasurer and driessen's father, henry, was acting chairman. the clerk and treasurer jobs were combined later
twenty-six families farmed in cottonwood lake township then. today there are nine families in the township, several of whom no longer farm
people don't turn out for township elections. usually, the only voters are the officers themselves, though they say they follow the correct election procedures anyway
miss america may have been a hit in atlantic city. but unless she's a native of the north, she wouldn't stand a chance in the fort yukon spring carnival queen contest
entrants in the annual competition, which beings march 25, must demonstrate skills that could come in handy in this northeast alaska town _ but might not go over too well on national tv
first, the tea-making contest. each of the young women must build a fire on the snow, melt enough snow to make one cup, boil the water and brew the tea
then there's the snowshoe race. there's not much call for three-inch heels in this secluded yukon river community of less than 700 people
finally, queen candidates must show their prowess at skinning a snowshoe hare, known in some parts of alaska as a ``lowbush moose.'' not surprisingly, the event is not a favorite of most entrants
but in other respects, the contest is similar to the miss america pageant. all contestants must display some special talent, answer impromptu questions and appear in an evening gown
the winner will preside over the carnival, which runs through april 2
government lawyers say that deception by a former fbi agent led to claims by teamsters president jackie presser that the fbi authorized him to start a union payroll-padding scheme
the justice department lawyers said thursday they believe a trial jury should determine whether the fbi gave presser and two other union officials authorization to allegedly embezzle money from his own union local's treasury, as presser's lawyers contend
the government ``has taken the position that fbi agents never authorized any embezzlement,'' the justice department's organized crime strike force said in documents filed thursday in u.s. district court. it also said the so-called authorization defense raises ``factual issues which only a trial jury may resolve.''
presser, 60, is the leader of the 1.6 million-member union and also is secretary-treasurer of teamsters local 507 in cleveland. he was indicted on may 16, 1986, on two charges of labor racketeering, one count of embezzlement, and two counts of filing false reports with the labor department
harold friedman, teamsters vice president and local 507 president, and anthony hughes, the local's recording secretary, are scheduled to stand trial with presser on july 12
the indictment alleged that presser, in his capacity as a local 507 officer, masterminded a $700,000 scheme to pay four people who received union money without doing any work for the union
presser's lawyers say the fbi told presser, who was an fbi informant, to pay certain people who had connections to organized crime so the agency could obtain information from them through presser
in documents filed with the court march 7, presser's lawyers said the government has supplied statements written in 1985 by former cleveland-based fbi agents patrick j. foran and martin p. mccann jr. that say the agency authorized presser to make the payments
but prosecutors william s. lynch, stephen h. jigger and bernard a. smith referred to a finding last week by a federal appeals court in washington that the authorization defense is a ``tangled web of deception'' and is ``the product of a calculated lie.''
the appeals court's finding came in the federal prosecution of robert s. friedrick, a former cleveland-based fbi agent who was fired after an indictment alleged he concocted a scheme to avert the indictment of presser
most of the evidence against friedrick was ruled invalid when a judge found that justice department lawyers misled him by making him believe he was immune from prosecution
a storm dusted the midwest and parts of the south today with snow after snapping power lines and closing schools in arkansas
there were people who planned to lay out in bikinis, and they're packing up their snow suits,'' said donna dickey, a university of arkansas student whose spring break began today
the storm knocked out power to about 3,000 homes and businesses thursday, arkansas power &amp; light co. spokesman charles kelly said
harrison, ark., reported 22 inches of snow on the ground, while most northern parts of the state had 4 to 8 inches
forecasters posted winter storm warnings for nothern arkansas and western kentucky. snow advisories also were posted for southern illinois, western tennessee, southern indiana, ohio, northern west virginia and southwest pennsylvania
early today, snow fell across lower michigan, southwest ohio, indiana, illinois, southern and eastern missouri and northwest kentucky. rain and snow fell across southeast missouri and southwest kentucky. rain fell in western tennessee, arkansas, mississippi, louisiana and eastern texas
snowfall during the six hours ending at 1 a.m. est included an inch at columbia, st. louis and springfield, mo. during the same period, galveston, texas, had nearly 2 inches, lake charles, la., had slightly more than an inch and palacios, texas, had about three-quarters of an inch
the temperature in midland, texas, dropped to 23 degrees, tying the record low for the date set in 1934
in florida, a cold snap that sent temperatures to record lows showed signs of easing today. the cold did little damage to crops, officials said
today's forecast called for snow from southeast missouri and eastern arkansas across much of tennessee and the ohio valley into the central appalachians and new york state; snow scattered over michigan; rain and thunderstorms from the central gulf coast states across east tennessee, georgia and northern and central florida; rain spreading east across the carolinas; and scattered rain along the middle atlantic coast
highs were expected to be in the 40s or 50s in much of the nation; the 30s from north dakota across the upper mississippi valley, the ohio valley and the great lakes into northern new england; the 60s and 70s over the west coast and western portions of the plateau, florida and southern georgia; the 60s along the central gulf coast and along the coast of the carolinas; and the 80s over much of the desert southwest
temperatures around the nation at 2 a.m. est ranged from 1 degree below zero at laramie, wyo., to 70 at key west, fla
other reports:
_east: atlanta 46 cloudy; boston 35 fair; buffalo 27 cloudy; charleston, s.c. 38 foggy; cincinnati 32 snow; cleveland 33 cloudy; detroit 34 cloudy; miami 66 fair; new york 35 fair; philadelphia 33 partly cloudy; pittsburgh 29 cloudy; portland, maine 26 fair; washington 34 cloudy
_central: bismarck 25 fair; chicago 31 snow; dallas-fort worth 37 windy; denver 17 fair; des moines 23 fair; indianapolis 32 snow; kansas city 24 fair; minneapolis-st. paul 27 fair; nashville 40 cloudy; new orleans 55 rain; st. louis 32 snow
_west: albuquerque 26 fair; anchorage 31 cloudy; las vegas 46 fair; los angeles 57 fair; phoenix 58 fair; salt lake city 29 fair; san diego 55 fair; san francisco 48 fair; seattle 46 fair
_canada: montreal 27 fair; toronto 27 foggy
alderman joe lanahan may no longer have to worry about which side of the bed he sleeps on
lanahan's right to retain his city council seat has sparked heated debate in this st. louis suburb of 3,800 people since just after christmas, when he told the council he had his land surveyed and found that about half his house was in the city and half in madison county
lanahan said he sleeps in the city, however, because the line falls across one corner at the foot of his bed. he also pays city taxes
the troy city council on thursday unanimously approved an ordinance requiring city officials to live entirely within city limits. but all members agreed that if lanahan annexed the rest of his property to the city, he could remain an alderman
lanahan said he was pleased with the decision and will seek to have the section annexed. a crowd of about 50 supporters applauded when the agreement was finally reached
this has been a real hassle for us,'' he said. ``i'm glad to see the support of the people. you really don't know how many friends you have till something like this happens.''
three petitions supporting lanahan containing 380 signatures were presented to the council before the vote
terrorist violence in northern ireland briefly cast a pall over st. patrick's day celebrations in new york, boston and other cities, but for most of the more than 1.5 million parade-goers the usual high spirits flowed freely
new york's traditional parade up fifth avenue began in midtown thursday with somber words from political and religious leaders, but soon the bands, sunshine and some surreptitious sipping produced the usual festive atmosphere among the more than 1 million marchers and watchers
more than 200,000 people crowded the sidewalk in downtown chicago to watch the 40,000 marchers, 50 floats and 45 bands that made up the annual parade. portions of the chicago river were dyed green for the day of revelry
in kansas city, mo., 70,000 irish and would-be irish parade-goers braved a wet snowfall, while 321,000 people thronged the streets of savannah, ga., in the 164th edition of that city's st. patrick's day procession, the second-largest behind new york's
new york's cardinal john j. o'conner, in his homily at a mass preceding the parade, reflected on a terrorist's grenade-and-gunfire attack on an irish republican army funeral in belfast, northern ireland, that left three dead and 68 wounded the day before
i hope everyone marching will remember those killed, catholic or protestant,'' said o'connor, who reviewed the parade from the steps of st. patrick's cathedral. ``the violence is insane.''
o'connor said new york's parade was not canceled because ``that's not the irish way.''
in boston, where the parade is scheduled for sunday, mayor raymond l. flynn said the root of the violence in northern ireland was ``the utter despair that british rule has perpetrated.''
the crowds, in various shades of green and varying stages of sobriety, were generally well-behaved and few arrests were reported. in new york, 15 summonses were issued for drinking in public, and only one person was arrested for disorderly conduct
in washington, president reagan proved his irish wasn't up over past disputes with congress when he toasted ``seamus wright'' _ otherwise known as house speaker jim wright _ during a capitol hill luncheon
standing thursday at a table covered with a green cloth and decorated with green carnations, the president wished wright ``warm words on a cold evening and a full moon on a dark night.''
wright, who wore a green jacket and green tie, declared that ``we've buried all differences that might exist between political parties and branches of government on this day of st. patrick.'' he toasted reagan, 77, for his youthfulness
both men have roots in 19th century ireland. the irish for james is seamus. says</head>
the aids virus could spread among american high school and college students because the young tend not to believe health warnings are meant for them, according to surgeon general c. everett koop
my greatest concern is with the group aged 15 to 24,'' koop told a convention of hospital administrators thursday
officials may have a better idea of the extent of the aids virus among college students by the end of the year as more colleges go along with a u.s. centers for disease control request to conduct blind blood testing, koop said
under such procedures, already used by hospitals in about 40 cities, blood drawn for other purposes is tested for aids without the sample being identified by patient
he noted that sexually transmitted diseases in general are rising at the steepest rate in 16 years ``in spite of the tremendous educational campaign in 1987, where for the first time in history we were discussing in the print media and on television very blunt statements about aids and sexually transmitted disease.''
if there is hiv (the aids virus) out there, and we know there is, then there can't help but be some infection going on that we're not going to see until we get down the road about five years,'' he told the federation of american health systems
it can take five years or more for aids to develop after a person contracts the virus
so with teen-agers, who think that they're immortal, who always think the health message is meant for the person next to them, who have sort of a sense that risk-taking is sort of fun, we have our most difficult target group, especially with regard to heterosexual transmission.''
earlier, the federal official who oversees the medicare and medicaid health programs for the elderly and poor told the hospital executives they have been given ``an almost impossible task: controlling physician decision-making.''
there is deep-seated ambivalence in america about intruding on physician decision-making,'' said dr. william l. roper, head of the health care financing administration. ``but we cannot have both physician autonomy and cost constraint.''
a professor pleaded innocent to charges he lied about the dalkon shield's safety when he testified for a.h. robins co. in its attempt to disprove a woman's claim that the contraceptive device made her sterile
dr. louis g. keith remained free on a $10,000 appearance bond after entering his plea here thursday. he said he voluntarily took a leave of absence from northwestern university in chicago, where he teaches obstetrics and gynecology, until the case is resolved
keith testified as an expert witness for a.h. robins, the richmond, va.-based manufacturer of the device, during trial of the lawsuit brought against the company by linda harre of tampa five years ago
the 53-year-old professor told the jury he had conducted experiments that verified the safety of the intrauterine device
but a federal indictment announced march 3 contends that keith ``did not design, direct, conduct or do the scientific experiments about which he testified.''
keith is charged with obstruction of justice and lying eight times on the witness stand. if convicted on all counts, he faces 45 years in prison and $85,000 in fines
the case is being prosecuted by attorneys from the u.s. justice department in washington
mrs. harre, 39, alleged the shield made her sterile, but she lost her $12.5 million lawsuit. she won a new trial in march 1985 when the 11th circuit court of appeals in atlanta issued an opinion that attacked the veracity of keith's testimony
five months later, robins filed for protection from its creditors in federal bankruptcy court in richmond due to the more than 14,300 lawsuits filed against the company by women who claim to have suffered pelvic infections, sterility or spontaneous abortions from using the dalkon shield
the bankruptcy filing barred future action on the pending lawsuits
ann c. tighe, of the chicago law firm representing keith, said: ``my client has proclaimed his innocence. we will expect him to be vindicated.''
after the brief hearing thursday, u.s. magistrate thomas wolfson set the trial for may before judge william castagna
a black man went to the gallows alone today after a judge granted a stay of execution to the ``sharpeville six,'' who were aided in their appeal by an international clemency campaign
the pre-dawn hanging of tsepo letsoara, 24, concluded without fanfare, while world leaders, clergymen and politicians continued to plea with the government to save the ``sharpeville six.''
letsoara was convicted of the murder of a black woman in a port elizabeth township in october 1985, during nationwide racial unrest. the victim, grace mvetye, was killed by the ``necklace'' method, in which a gasoline-soaked tire was placed around her neck and set ablaze
the ``sharpeville six,'' five black men and a woman, would have joined letsoara on the gallows today had pretoria supreme court justice willem human not granted a one-month stay of execution thursday. human made his decision after defense lawyers presented evidence of perjury by one of the prosecution's chief witnesses
human granted the convicts four weeks to apply for a retrial
the case was controversial because the six were convicted under the principle of ``common cause,'' which held them responsible for the september 1984 death of town councilor jacob dlamini because they among a mob of 100 that stoned and burned dlamini to death in sharpeville
dlamini was killed on the first day of riots that lasted nearly three years and claimed more than 2,500 black lives
president p.w. botha had ignored pleas from leaders of most western nations and from countries and organizations around the world to stop the executions. the government said human's decision ``proves the wisdom of the state president and his ministers in deciding not to impede the due process of law
the government also indicated a link between the scheduled hangings and a car bomb that exploded thursday in krugersdorp, killing three black people and injuring 20 people. the explosion occurred in a magistrate's court where the sharpeville six had been held briefly between their arrest and trial
police offered a $25,000 reward for information leading to the arrest of a white man they say is a member of the outlawed african national congress. the man was described as the prime suspect in the bombing
deputy minister of information stoffel van der merwe said neither pressure from overseas nor car bombs would persuade the government to interfere in a court case
the star, an independent johannesburg newspaper, reported today that botha granted clemency three weeks ago to a black policeman who was sentenced to death for murdering a youth two years ago in mamelodi, the black township outside pretoria
a spokesman for the department of justice said botha commuted constable george john sindane's death sentence to eight years in prison. the spokesman said sindane was one of five people whose death sentences were commuted this year
in other developments thursday,
_ attorneys said a $2.25 million wrongful arrest lawsuit was begun against the ministry of law and order after charges of sedition and subversion were dropped against a black roman catholic nun and 13 others who lived in black townships outside krugersdorp
sister bernard ncube, president of the federation of transvaal women, spent 16 months in detention, including 13 in solitary confinement, after being charged. the state alleged that the group established ``kangaroo'' courts, campaigned against the police and initiated a boycott of white-owned shops and buses
the charges were dropped thursday after the prosecution refused to supply a court with details of the alleged acts
_also, the attorney for freed african national congress leader govan mbeki said the government denied his request for a passport, which he sought to visit his three children living in exile. attorney priscilla jana said no reason was given for the denial
mbeki was freed from prison in november after serving 24 years of a life sentence for treason and sabotage in connection with his activities as national chairman of the anc. his oldest son, thabo, is an executive member of the anc in exile in lusaka, zambia
since his release from prison, mbeki has been restricted to the port elizabeth area, and banned from giving public speeches or news interviews
an 84-year-old man distracted two knife-wielding burglars by leading them to a cache of diamonds, then shot one of them with an old gun he had hidden in a drawer
lou marks said it was the first time he'd fired the .32-caliber gun that he had owned for 20 years
when i put my finger on that gun, i said, `dear lord, you have saved my life,' and i shot him point-blank,'' marks said thursday. ``i don't feel a bit of remorse. they weren't going to let me live.''
raymond edward sumther, 39, was in stable condition at bayfront medical center today with bullet wounds in his neck and chest. police said he would be charged with armed burglary
gary glover, a 30-year-old transient marks said he once helped, was charged with burglary and booked into the pinellas county jail on $15,000 bail
marks' daughter, marion macri, 59, who lives in the house, said the incident began wednesday night with a knock on the door. when her father opened it, two men forced their way in, threw marks to the floor and told mrs. macri to get down as well. they held the two at knifepoint, taking $68 in cash from marks and about $20 from mrs. macri's purse
suddenly marks remembered he owned a gun
then i says, `i've got a lot of jewelry you can have. take it and go,''' said marks, who sells jewelry from his home. ``when i said, `follow me, i'll show you my diamonds,' i knew i was halfway home.''
as one would-be robber busied himself with grabbing three quarter-carat diamond rings and loose gems, marks opened a drawer he said held more loot
it really held the gun
after i shot him (twice) he just stood there and looked mortified,'' marks said. both men fled. the wounded man was quickly picked up by police, and the second suspect was found thursday
we kind of blame ourselves for letting them in,'' mrs. macri said
nbc correspondent john hart is leaving the network at the end of the month to pursue other interests
hart, whose thoughtful, poetic style has been featured in his pieces for ``nbc nightly news,'' also served as saturday anchor for the broadcast and anchors nbc's news digests
hart joined nbc in 1975 as a political correspondent and later served as chief european correspondent. before nbc, hart spent about 15 years at cbs, serving as washington anchor and then new york anchor of the ``cbs morning news'' from 1968 to 1973
hart said thursday that the decision to leave ``just kind of grew over several years. the business changed and i changed and i guess we changed differently.''
nbc news president lawrence k. grossman said nbc news would welcome him back if he ever wanted to return. hart said he didn't know what he would do yet, except get his hectic life back to normal
two other prominent network journalists, bill moyers and roger mudd, have left network news for public television in recent years, citing dissatisfaction with the increasing importance of budgets and marketing in news divisions
hart said such issues affected his decision, but he declined to discuss them lest appear he was leaving the network with bad feelings
i'm not going away mad,'' he said. ``it's really a very positive step. i'm really grateful to the business for the life it's given me. i've been able to witness first-hand the major events in my life. i wouldn't do it differently in any way.'' del rio.</note>
roland drew, a movie actor who quit hollywood in the 1940s for a second career in dressmaking, died at home of natural causes, his son said. he was 87
drew's roles included that of prince baron of vulcan in the flash gordon serials of the late 1930s which featured buster crabbe as the adventurous earthman
drew, who died thursday, received a letter requesting his autograph as recently as three months ago, said his son, damon drew
some of roland drew's films, such as ``hitler, beast of berlin,'' have been shown on local television in recent years
the appeal of stardom faded for drew during the 1940s, and he quit acting to enter the garment industry as a representative and maker, his son said. he manufactured women's dresses under the label damon originals
as a romantic leading man, drew co-starred with dolores del rio in the silent film ``ramona.'' the two later were engaged to be married, but the romance fizzled, damon drew said
roland drew married dorothy dearing, a former busby berkeley girl, in 1946. she died in 1965
in addition to his son, drew is survived by two grandsons
a soviet spacecraft bound for phobos will carry a plaque commemorating the martian moon's discovery in 1877 by american astronomer asaph hall
the national aeronautics and space administration said thursday the soviets agreed to the idea ``in the continuing spirit of cooperation in space.''
the phobos mission, scheduled for launch in july, should reach the martian moon in the spring of 1989. there will be two spacecraft, which will enter phobos' orbit and release probes to land on the moon
the two moons of mars, phobos and deimos, were discovered in august 1877 by astronomer asaph hall of the u.s. naval observatory in washington, d.c., using a 26-inch refracting telescope
nasa on thursday presented to representatives of the soviet academy of sciences a photographic transfer on aluminum of hall's telescope logbook page dated aug. 17, 1877. it was turned over at a lunar and planatary science conference at the johnson space center in houston
hall first detected an object moving around mars on aug. 11 and recorded it as a star. the log for the 17th records the position angles and separations of phobos and deimos and notes that phobos is ``faint and difficult to observe.'' three days later, the naval observatory announced the discovery of the martian satellites and said they had been named for the horses of mars, the roman god of war
nasa said the soviets have agreed to place an aluminum plaque on either the main body of one of the spacecraft or on one of the landing vehicles. separate moved as a0564 on drew.</note>
roland drew, a movie actor who quit hollywood in the 1940s for a second career in dressmaking, died at home of natural causes thursday, his son said. he was 87
drew's roles included that of prince baron of vulcan in the flash gordon serials of the late 1930s which featured buster crabbe as the adventurous earthman
the appeal of stardom faded for drew during the 1940s, and he quit acting to enter the garment industry as a representative and maker, said his son, damon drew. he manufactured women's dresses under the label damon originals
john p. ``jack'' sutherland, a former white house correspondent for u.s. news and world report, died wednesday of a heart attack at age 67
sutherland had reported on the u.s. presidency from harry s. truman through gerald ford's administration. he then became associate editor of the u.s. news washington letter, the post he held until he retired in 1985
kathleen noonan, who preserved the manuscript of her irish father's working-class novel, ``the ragged trousered philanthropists,'' died saturday at the age of 95
it was first issued in 1914 after his daughter produced the manuscript and was introduced to publisher grant richards
robert noonan's novel, written under the pseudonym robert tressell, describes life among his fellow house painters and decorators in the english south coast town of hastings, which he called mugsborough
he died of tuberculosis in 1911 in liverpool while waiting to emigrate to the united states. he was buried in a pauper's grave
buffalo bill's buffalo-hide coat, eight guns and a tomahawk go on the auction block today in the largest sale yet of wild west memorabilia collected by the legendary william f. cody
the 300 items offered for sale belong to san franciscan greg martin, who acquired the collection after he had been unable to buy the single item he wanted
it was a double-barrel shotgun that brought martin to a warehouse in billings, mont., last year
i saw it up in storage ... and my pulse skipped a beat,'' said martin, who offered to buy the westley-richards english shotgun inscribed to cody
when the elderly owner refused to sell just one item, martin wrote a check for $300,000 for the entire collection and took it out of storage for the first time in 20 years
he is the living symbol of the west and one of the most famous americans who ever lived,'' said martin, 49, a gun collector and aficionado of american history. ``the way we look at the west is because of how buffalo bill showed it to us.''
the collection, to be auctioned by butterfield &amp; butterfield, includes the buffalo-hide coat worn by cody and the gun he carried as a 14-year-old pony express rider. cody's single-action colt revolver, the type he used as a u.s. army scout, is one of eight guns in the collection
items such as a tomahawk from cody's friend d.f. ``white beaver'' powell, along with dozens of photographs, show bills and theater tickets chronicle cody's life as an indian fighter, buffalo hunter and scout who along with shooting champion w. ``doc'' carver founded the first wild west show
for 11 years, after dime-novel writer ned buntline persuaded cody to appear in the first ``scouts of the prairie'' show, cody traveled between eastern theaters and the plains
the collection consists of items preserved by cody's adoring sister, julia cody goodman, and includes the cody family bible and letters to julia in which cody discussed a troubled marriage, the death of his son and other intimate events
the engraved shotgun, the only item not up for auction, will remain in martin's home, a three-story victorian crammed with western artifacts including a likeness of chief sitting bull and the pearl-handled smith &amp; wesson revolvers owned by annie oakley
martin, a former real estate broker, once paid $1 million for bill harrah's pony express museum in reno, and maintains his collection with the help of his wife, petra, a former federal judge in germany
he flew to billings in search of the collection when he learned julia cody goodman's daughter, josie, sold it for $1 to a woman named stella foote to keep it from going to the cody museum in cody, wyo., martin said
the collection traveled the world under the sponsorship of the department of commerce before it was placed in storage by foote
banana slug backers defeated abalone admirers in an california assembly battle to name the official state mollusk
assemblyman trice harvey tried in vain thursday to add the abalone to a bill that would give the mollusk title to the banana slug. his amendment failed 36-37
i feel there should be a sharing of this,'' harvey said. ``the banana slug could be the inland mollusk. the abalone can be the marine mollusk.''
he said the abalone was deserving because it is ``working hard to try to save the endangered sea otter.''
the banana slug is yucky. abalone is delicious,'' he added
assemblyman byron sher, author of the banana slug bill, opposed the amendment, but said, ``i respect mr. harvey and enjoy abalone, or is it the other way around?''
he said the amendment would be a disservice to the dynamite bluebird troop of redwood city, which did the research and convinced him to carry the slug bill
also, he said, ``the abalone is not an accessible mollusk.'' not only does it live underwater, but it costs $38 a pound
a strong earthquake shook the japanese capital before dawn today, rocking skyscrapers, rattling dishes and injuring at least nine people
japan's central meteorological agency said the tremor registered 6.1 on the richter scale _ meaning a severe quake. it said there was no danger of a tsunami, or seismic tidal waves
the epicenter was 55 miles below ground in the eastern part of tokyo, the agency said
the japan broadcasting corp. said nine people suffered injuries in tokyo and neighboring areas. police had no reports of damage
tremors were felt throughout the area and in parts of the tohoku region to the north. the quake struck at 5:34 a.m., disrupting train service throughout the capital just before the morning rush hour
i could hear dishes rattling in people's kitchens,'' said a woman in kamakura, a southern suburb. ``trees were shaking and there was a rumbling sound.''
tokyo is on a major western pacific fault and is earthquake-prone. most temblors are mild, causing little or no damage
the richter scale is a measure of ground motion as recorded on seismographs. every increase of one number means a tenfold increase in magnitude, so 7.5 reflects an earthquake 10 times stronger than one of 6.5
an earthquake of 3.5 can cause slight damage, 4 moderate damage, 5 considerable damage and 6 severe damage
the san francisco earthquake of 1906, which occurred before the richter scale was devised, has been estimated at 8.3
the poor lose more years of life to diseases, especially those linked to drinking and smoking, according to a study comparing death rates and income
the study by oregon officials tried to pin down the effect of income by focusing solely on one racial group, whites, in one urban county, multnomah, which includes portland, from 1976 to 1984
five income levels were established by the study, published thursday by the u.s. centers for disease control. as income increased, the study found there was a decrease in ``years of potential life lost,'' a statistic that assumes each victim would have lived to age 70
the study found that those in census tracts with a median household income of less than $12,100 per year had a rate of ``years of potential life lost'' that was 50 percent higher than the overall rate and nearly twice as high as the rate for the highest income group, above $19,300 a year
the greatest difference between the groups was found in deaths attributed to alcoholism. the lowest income group's rating for years lost to alcoholism was 3.5 times greater than average and 11.7 times higher than that of the most affluent group
i think to the extent that portland and oregon are like the rest of the country, we can conclude that people in low incomes have higher rates of premature mortality overall, and in particular alcoholism and alcohol-related mortality,'' said dr. gus birkhead, a cdc epidemiologist
they also found that chronic obstructive lung disease, which probably means cigarette smoking, (is more prevalent) in the poorer group.''
birkhead said drinking and smoking may be higher among lower-income people because of a lack of education about the dangers of those activities, ``or it could be as a way to escape the frustrations of life.''
poorer people also have less access to medical care, he said
the oregon study noted that past studies of alcholism and income have prompted theories that doctors are less likely to report alcholism on the death certificates of affluent people
however, the authors said, the oregon center for health statistics questions doctors about any cause of death possibly related to alcohol. the reported death rate for alcoholic liver disease and cirrhosis was twice as high in oregon as the national average in 1984
birkhead said the study suggests that education programs need to be focused on lower income groups, especially programs about the health dangers of cigarettes and alcohol
a fire swept through a restaurant in this balaeric islands resort city today, killing five people and sending smoke into an apartment building above, officials said
twenty-one others were evacuated from the smoke-filled casa sueca during the early morning blaze, officials said
the fire broke out in the bellmar restaurant just after 3 a.m. when a worker dropped a lit cigarette into a paint can causing an explosion, said fire department spokesman guillermo garcia
the man was burned to death, while firemen discovered four other victims, all of them swedish, dead of smoke inhalation on the second floor of the four-story building, garcia said
police identified the four swedes as grace rosemarie birgitta prytz, 46, of eskilstuna, eva lisa tammi, 21, of arboga, elly tammi, no age given, also of arboga, and hokkannen pertti, age and hometown unknown
retired army maj. gen. richard secord, under indictment in the iran-contra affair, today said he ``absolutely'' doesn't expect to serve time for his role in the secret weapons deals
i think the legal system itself is going to see the merit of our case and will dismiss this indictment very quickly,'' he said on abc-tv's ``good morning america.''
asked if he expected to ``do time'' on the charges, secord said: ``absolutely not.''
i don't see any merit whatsoever to the case that's been brought by the special counsel,'' secord continued
he said his lawyers will argue that independent counsel lawrence walsh ``is running amok and without authority'' in prosecuting the case
i think that this is a completely uncontrollable and probably illegal independent counsel ... trying to justify the expenditure of millions and millions and millions of dollars of taxpayer's money and 15 months of effort on a witch hunt,'' secord said
secord said that in return for doing his duty and responding to requests from the white house, he finds himself ``trapped by a set of circumstances which none of us dreamed could ever be criminalized.''
i guess if i were to write a book, i'd proably entitle it, `if the phones rings again, don't answer.'''
county officials have removed an obstacle that kept art students from drawing nude models: bathing suits
the cobb county arts commission voted unanimously thursday to overturn a ban on nude models imposed several weeks ago by community services department chief bob ash. ash had been concerned about how the community would perceive nude modeling, even though it was limited to advanced, adults-only classes
judge mary staley, chairwoman of the arts commission, said members realized the value of the nude as art. ``it's a classical approach to developing your skills as an artist. as long as precautions are taken to avoid exposing people who do not wish to be exposed.''
the commission said nudes could only be used in advanced, adult arts classes and that warning signs must be posted on classroom doors. in addition, the panel also voted to require students between ages 15 and 18 to obtain written parental consent before they can attend classes with nude models
ash has said he would abide by the arts commission's decision
a 4-year-old boy ate food scraps on the floor with his family's german shepherd for about a year and can only howl and whine like a dog because of parental neglect, police said today
the mass-circulation bild newspaper said the female german shepherd had ``raised'' the child, but authorities said that was an exaggeration. bild identified the boy only as horst
the child is unable to speak, because his parents never spoke to him,'' said mettmann police spokesman wolfgang schauer, adding the boy only makes dog-like sounds
the dog had become a bigger part of his (the child's) life than his parents,'' said the police spokesman in mettmann, eight miles from duesseldorf
schauer told the associated press in a telephone interview the boy routinely shared food scraps with the animal on the kitchen floor of the family's apartment and that the boy did not know how to eat at the table
authorities did not release the family's name, but said the parents were being investigated. bild said the father was a 30-year-old unemployed butcher
the couple routinely left the child alone with the dog in the apartment during the day, bild reported
the child's grandfather came for a visit last week and found the youngster on the floor sharing a piece of meat with the dog, the police spokesman said
the grandfather immediately notified authorities, and the child was taken to a children's hospital in nearby wuppertal, said schauer
bild said the child's only word was ``asta,'' the dog's name
a vessel carrying the first shipment of a japanese automaker's u.s.-built cars to japan has resumed its interrupted voyage
the green bay left portland thursday night. it originally set out march 7 from portland with its cargo of 540 honda accord coupes. it turned back sunday with a cracked ballast tank and cracked fuel tank after encountering a storm in the northern pacific ocean
repairs were completed this week at the swan island shipyard
the ship's owner, central gulf lines inc. of new orleans, declined to specify the cost of repairs or the extent of damages
the u.s. coast guard revealed the nature of the damage after inspecting the u.s.-flagged ship
a gala reception next tuesday to welcome the ship at narashino port, east of tokyo, was rescheduled for april 8
tamil rebels armed with pick axes, swords and daggers killed 13 villagers, military and police sources said today
the attack thursday occurred near the historic buddhist temple town of digawapi in ampara district, about 125 miles east of colombo, said the sources, who spoke on condition of anonymity
more than 110 people, most of them members of the sinhalese majority, have been killed in the past 18 days in a series of attacks and reprisal attacks. authorities have blamed the violence on the liberation tigers of tamil eelam, the largest tamil militant group
at least six women and two infants were among the victims of the massacre. some reports said the toll could be 15, the sources said
tamil extremists used swords and daggers to kill the villagers because gunshots would have alerted two sri lankan military camps nearby, the sources said
the tigers have been fighting for a separate homeland in the northern and eastern provinces, where most of the tamils live
the attack came hours after a sri lankan minister, gamini dissanayeke, returned from india and announced indian and sri lankan troops will patrol together in the east
the tigers oppose an indian-sponsored peace accord signed last july. the accord was designed to end the 4-year-old tamil guerrilla war against the sinhalese-dominated government and the sinhalese ethnic group
it would grant some autonomy to minority tamils in the north and east. more than 50,000 indian troops are in sri lanka to enforce the india-sri lanka peace pact and disarm the tigers
under the accord, sri lankan security forces were confined to their barracks and only indian troops were dealing with the tamils
both tamil and sinhalese militants oppose the accord. the tamil tigers have refused to surrender their arms, as called for in the pact. many sinhalese say the accord makes too many concessions to tamils
india and sri lanka both have accused tamil militants of killing sinhalese in retaliatory attacks that began march 2 with the killing of 18 sinhalese in morawewa village in eastern trincomalee district
on march 4, tamil rebels used land mines to blow up a crowded truck in the same area. at least 26 sinhalese died in the explosion
a band of men suspected of being sinhalese extremists then killed 22 tamil bus passengers near horawapotana village, also in trincomalee district
the predominantly hindu tamils make up 18 percent of sri lanka's 16 million people, 75 percent of whom are sinhalese buddhists. tamils say they are discriminated against by the sinhalese. defects</head>
a cloud of dioxin spread over an area of italy by an industrial accident in 1976 apparently caused no significant increase in birth defects, according to a six-year study
the study reported in today's edition of the journal of the american medical association focused on babies born in and around seveso, italy, from 1977 through 1982. another study in today's journal reported that a blood test developed in sweden might simplify the job of determining how many vietnam veterans have been exposed to the defoliant agent orange
the blood test is less expensive and less invasive than the standard test of fat tissue, which requires surgery, said wayne p. wilson, executive director of the new jersey state commission on agent orange
a team led by dr. peter c. kahn of rutgers university compared both tests in a study involving 27 men and found little difference in the results
although the tests now can be performed only in sweden and at the u.s. centers for disease control, wilson on thursday, urged their increased use
dioxin, a byproduct of pesticide manufacture, causes cancer in laboratory animals, but has not been directly linked to cancers in humans
the july 1976 accident at a chemical factory exposed more than 37,200 residents of seveso and three neighboring towns in northern italy to dioxin _ the largest population ever contaminated by the chemical
the six physicians who performed the six-year study wrote that it confirms previous analyses which concluded that if there is any increased risk related to dioxin, ``the overall risk is unlikely to be large or might be limited to very rare and specific birth defects.''
the italian doctors considered as defects only congenital malformations that were present and obvious at birth. congenital problems that manifest themselves later, such as mental retardation, were not considered
the seveso congenital malformations registry, established shortly after the accident, found that in 15,291 births, 742 infants were born with malformations, a rate of 48.5 per 1,000
the prevalence of malformations over the same period in a nearby, uncontaminated area used as a control was 48.8 per 1,000 births, the study found
the quantity of dioxin released into the environment ``seemed to be enormous'' but was never precisely determined, according to the study
still more important,'' the study concluded, ``is the fact that no infant with a major malformation was identified in the most highly contaminated zone.''
levels of dioxin concentration found on the ground in the area surrounding the factory were nearly 1,000 times higher than the levels termed safe by state and federal officials after a cleanup at times beach, mo
times beach is now deserted, and hundreds of families have filed lawsuits against companies and individuals over exposure to dioxin contained in waste oil sprayed on their streets as a dust-control measure in the 1970s
agent orange, used in vietnam to eliminate ground cover for viet cong and north vietnamese troops, contained the most toxic form of dioxin, 2,3,7,8-tcdd
questions about the effects of agent orange exposure have lingered since the war. some veterans have sought government compensation, contending their exposure resulted in cancers, rashes, headaches, infertility and other side effects, as well as birth defects in their children
the veterans administration has rejected the claims, saying numerous studies have found no link between exposure and reported symptoms
the socialist workers party, the subject of 16 years of illegal fbi surveillance, claimed victory after the justice department decided to withdraw an appeal and pay a damage award to the party
u.s. district judge thomas griesa had awarded the party $264,000 in damages aug. 26, 1986, ruling that an fbi campaign of wiretapping, bugging, burglaries, anonymous letters and harassment was illegal and ``patently unconstitutional.''
the rulings by judge griesa are now final,'' jack barnes, national secretary of the party, said thursday. ``this places a valuable weapon securely in the hands of every fighter for democratic rights and political liberties.''
amy brown, spokeswoman for the justice department's civil division in washington, confirmed that the department notified the u.s. district court in new york on wednesday that it was withdrawing its appeal
she referred a request for comment to assistant u.s. attorney peter salerno in manhattan, who had none
the socialist workers party, the first amendment and the rule of law have won,'' said attorney leonard b. boudin of the political rights defense fund, which represented the party
the case, filed in 1973, challenged an extensive counterintelligence operation by the federal government to infiltrate and neutralize organizations suspected of ``subversive activities.''
according to the court, the fbi planted 1,300 informers in the party and its offshoot, the young socialist alliance, between 1960 and 1976, paying them a total of $1.7 million. the fbi committed 193 burglaries and photographed or removed 9,864 party documents, the judge said
the socialist workers party, a trotskyite offshoot of the communist league, claims about 2,000 members nationwide
gunmen wounded a senior police officer, his chauffeur and two other soldiers in separate attacks today. the military said arrested a provincial deputy commander of the communist new people's army
on thursday, communist rebels killed three people in manila's so-called ``war of the streets.''
police said gunmen in a speeding car opened fire today on a vehicle carrying maj. pepito campos and his driver in suburban quezon city. police said the two were wounded, but out of danger at a local hospital
campos is chief of the special investigations division for the capital's northern police district. police said a philippine constabulary captain was arrested later as a suspect
in a separate incident, gunmen believed to be communist rebels fired on a car carrying three philippine constabulary soldiers in manila's taguig suburb. two of the soldiers were wounded, police said
on thursday, two suspected rebels shot and killed jaime javellana, a neighborhood ward leader, as he was walking along a street in manila's santa mesa district
an hour later, four men armed with .45-caliber pistols opened fire on a jeep near the university of santo tomas. two soldiers, sgt. herman pascua and constable perfecto terte, were mortally wounded. a third soldier suffered wounds in the chest and arms but survived
in san fernando, 40 miles north of here, the philippine constabulary announced the arerest of elizardo lapuz, 42, which it identified as the deputy commander of the new people's army in pampanga province
a military statement said lapuz was arrested late thursday as he left his home in the san fernando area. he offered no resistance. pampanga province, which borders manila to the north, has been a longtime rebel stronghold
in manila, police said a leaflet left near the scene of the first shooting said javellana had been slain by the rebel alex boncayao brigade because of ``crimes against the people.''
the brigade is the manila wing of the communist new people's army, which has been waging a 19-year insurgency to establish a marxist state. it has claimed responsibility for killing scores of police, soldiers and government officials in the capital since president corazon aquino took office in 1986
laugh-in'' creator george schlatter will produce a one-hour comedy series for nbc this summer called ``funny people,'' nbc entertainment president brandon tartikoff told advertising executives
schlatter will bring together a cast of comedians for the weekly show that will premiere wednesday, july 27. schlatter previously produced the landmark comedy hit ``rowan and martin's laugh in'' and ``real people'' for nbc
tartikoff told 250 advertising executives thursday at the nbc studios that the network also would have original episodes of ``sonny spoon'' this summer
if the writers guild of america strike is settled in time, nbc also plans a new situation comedy during the rerun season, he said
tartikoff, describing his no.1-rated network's coming fall season during his annual spring preview, said nbc had six series commitments _ four comedies and two dramas _ with at least 10 other comedy and 14 drama pilots in the wings
the comedy commitments include ``empty nest,'' a show about a miami doctor with two grown daughters starring richard mulligan, kristy mcnichol, dinah manhoff and david leisure. mulligan lives next door to the four women of the ``golden girls'' and will have an occasional romance with rue mcclanahan
other comedy shows include:
_``dear john,'' starring judd hirsch as a man whose wife walks out on him and must start life over
_``baby boom,'' based on the movie starring diane keaton. the show about a career woman who suddenly finds herself with a baby has not been cast
_``channel 99,'' in which marilu henner stars as a woman who takes over a failing uhf station in new york state
|attingers'' is a fa|l drama in which stephen collins stars as a restaurateur and man about town in`a manhattan-based drama that also stars blythe danner and jerry stiller
the disney hour,'' which is moving from abc, will feature a rotating schedule of series specials, including the return of fess parker as ``davy crockett,'' harry anderson as the ``absent-minded professor,'' plus other movies and specials and a third regular series to be created later
robert loggia and lance guest will star as two fbi agents in the mini-series ``favorite son,'' which was described by tartikoff as a back-door pilot, meaning it could be developed into a series featuring the two g-men
aaron spelling, whose long-term exclusive commitment to abc expired last year, is developing a new show for nbc called ``nightingales,'' about six young women who are in a student nursing program
turning to movies planned next year, tartikoff said raymond burr was returning for three more ``perry mason'' films, but he thought one of them probably would be ``perry mason's last case.''
tartikoff said nbc was considering at least 20 shows to counterprogram abc's 30-hour miniseries, ``war and remembrance.''
among the pilots being considered are ``flip side,'' about a rock legend who comes home to face his three alienated children. ex-beatle ringo starr had been cast for the lead role
tartikoff jokingly told the audience starr had been replaced by pete best _ the original drummer for the beatles, who was replaced by starr
another pilot is being prepared for singer morris day, who starred in ``purple rain'' and ``moving'' and will play a flamboyant record producer in a new comedy in development
kate capshaw of ``indiana jones and the temple of doom'' stars in the comedy pilot ``when in rome,'' about a hotshot new york newspaper woman who takes over a local newspaper in rome, n.d
tartikoff said nbc would begin in september with the summer olympics from seoul, south korea, then open its regular season with a special featuring all of its stars at disneyland, to be followed by a new ``davy crockett'' epsiode
nbc also has this year's baseball world series and football super bowl
a senior military official said today that about 100 suspected members of the japanese crime syndicate, the yakuza, slipped into the country and police were trying to place them under surveillance
philippine constabulary chief maj. gen. ramon montano told reporters in this central port city that the military was having trouble distinguishing the gangsters among the thousands of japanese tourists visiting the country
he said local authorities have been coordinating with japanese police investigators who are in manila to track down the gangsters
military intelligence sources say most of the gangsters are in manila to buy locally made guns to be smuggled back to japan. testimony</head>
racing legend mickey thompson and his wife may have been murdered in retaliation for thompson's testimony in a murder trial that led to the conviction of their slain nephew's killer, a prosecutor said
orange county deputy district attorney tom goethals called the coincidence between the thompson murders wednesday and that of scott campbell six years ago ``absolutely incredible.''
first, his nephew is murdered execution-style, then thompson and his wife are hit execution-style. the connection just knocks you right out of your chair,'' goethals said
authorities called the killings of the millionaire couple an assassination and said they had no motive for the crime and no suspects in custody thursday
investigators are seeking a cyclist who abandoned his bicycle and flagged down motorists for a ride shortly after thompson, 59, and his wife, trudy, 41, were fatally shot at dawn wednesday outside their home in bradbury, 20 miles northeast of los angeles
detectives recovered the 12-speed bike and are checking for fingerprints and other clues, sheriff's deputy van mosely said
sheriff's officials refused to say whether the man being sought was one of the cyclists seen fleeing the thompsons' house, a third participant in the slayings, or had some other connection to the case
thompson, the first person to drive a car faster than 400 mph, was a key witness in the murder trial of larry cowell, who was convicted in 1982 of having thompson's nephew pushed from an airplane during a soured drug deal
cowell currently is serving a 25-years-to-life prison sentence for campbell's death. don dimascio, who was hired by cowell to kill campbell, was convicted last summer of first-degree murder and was sentenced to life imprisonment without parole, goethals said
knowing the type of people involved in campbell's murder, retaliation against thompson is very possible,'' goethals said. ``certainly it is an angle that will be explored.''
friends told police that thompson said he had received several death threats, but sheriff's investigators said he never reported them
a racing trade group on thursday put up a $30,000 reward for information leading to the arrest of those responsible for the thompson murders
hollywood agent paul kohner, who represented such diverse talents as charles bronson, ingmar bergman and john huston, has died of heart failure. he was 85
kohner died wednesday at university of california, los angeles, medical center, said john strauss, a longtime associate. his wife, former mexican film star lupita tovar, and family members were at his bedside
until a recent illness, kohner headed the paul kohner agency, which celebrates its 50th anniversary in may
throughout his career, kohner represented hundreds of stars, espcecially europeans, including greta garbo, marlene dietrich, maurice chevalier, liv ullman, max von sydow and klaus maria brandauer
in addition to his native czechoslovakian, kohner spoke italian, german, spanish, french and english. he frequently traveled abroad
over the past 20 years, kohner was instrumental in bringing all of swedish director ingmar bergman's films to the united states, strauss said
during world war ii kohner helped organize the european film fund, later the european relief fund, which provided emigre artists with financial assistance and help in obtaining visas to come to the united states
kohner was born in teplitz schoenau, in what is now czechoslovakia
while working as a reporter for his father's film industry trade newspapers in 1920, kohner interviewed then-head of universal pictures carl laemmle and came away with the promise of a job in new york
he came to the united states the same year and worked in various departments at universal, including publicity, promotion, distribution and production. eventually he produced foreign-language films for the studio, both in the united states and in europe
among the more important english films he produced were ``the hunchback of notre dame,'' starring lon chaney; ``a house divided,'' directed by william wyler; ``the chinese parrot,'' starring conrad veidt; and ``love me and the world is mine,'' starring mary philbin and norman kerry
he is survived by his wife; daughter susan kohner weitz; son paul j. ``pancho'' kohner; four grandchildren and a brother, walter
funeral services will be sunday at hillside memorial park. racial barriers</head> picks up 5th graf, `one of ...' edits thereafter to conform.</note>
police detained a white man and black man participating in a church-sponsored interracial exchange program, an organizer said today
murray hofmeyr, who is white, and sandy lebese, who is black, were picked up thursday night in mamelodi, the main township outside the capital of pretoria, according to rev. kevin cochrane, one of the program organizers
police had no immediate comment
in an unusual attempt to break down racial barriers, more than 200 black and white christians are trading places with each other this week
hofmeyr was among 170 whites who moved in wednesday for four days with black families in mamelodi. in turn, 40 blacks are living with whites in pretoria
hofmeyr, 29, a doctoral candidate in theology, was staying with lebese, 31, a field worker with the pretoria council of churches, in a four-room township house which he shares with nine others
lebese spent seven years in prison, from 1977 to 1983, on a sabotage conviction
cochrane said hofmeyr was released this morning, but that lebese was still being held. he said he had no information on why they were detained
security forces set up a roadblock thursday evening outside a meeting hall where the group participants had gathered. the security forces were checking the identity of all people entering the area
one of the principal organizers of the exchange is the rev. nico smith, a dutch reformed minister who has served in mamelodi since 1982. two years ago, however, he moved into his parish, becoming the first white permitted by the government live in a black township
the only difficulty has been getting everyone to the right place,'' smith said thursday before lebese and hofmeyr were detained. ``but everyone is getting along just fine.''
smith said the goal of the program was to teach both races about life on the other side of the apartheid barricade
apartheid is south africa's legal and traditional system of racial segregation. under it, the minority 5 million whites control the government and the economy and maintain separate districts, schools and health systems. the 26 million blacks have no vote in national affairs
before he was detained, hofmeyr described a night on the town with lebese
we went to several discos last night and at one place they even introduced me over the loud speaker,'' he said. ``i didn't have to pay for a single drink all night.''
lebese said it was important that whites experience a taste of township life
a lot of whites don't even know if it's legal for them to come to mamelodi,'' said lebese. ``they think we're a bunch of dangerous radicals. this week everyone has a chance to talk in a relaxed environment.''
most south african blacks know more about how whites live than vice versa because blacks often work at white homes and in white businesses. whites seldom venture into black townships
the whites said they were concerned about living in the townships, but that their hosts were instantly friendly and open,'' said the rev. ivor jenkins, an aide to smith. ``the blacks said, `it's great to be comfortable.'''
edgar molefe, a 20-year-old from soweto, johannesburg's main township, said he had little trouble adjusting to his new environment
we had a nice long talk and a great dinner,'' he said, recalling his healthy appetite during the meal
henry lederle, a white theology professor, conceded that the participating whites are those already committed to a non-segregated south africa
the whites still need this type of exposure,'' said lederle, 42. ``it's one thing to say you want to end apartheid, it's another to learn about the problems it creates.''
the four-day exchange program includes socializing, bible study and prayer trips throughout the townships. it will culminate sunday evening with a barbecue and church service
this isn't going to solve all south africa's problems,'' said lebese. ``but it will help a few people understand the situation a little better.''
maryland's largest automobile insurer says drivers who use radar detectors are more likely to speed and crash and vows to challenge a state order requiring it to accept applicants who use the devices
associate deputy insurance commissioner thomas p. raimondi ruled thursday that washington-based geico corp. could not refuse auto insurance in maryland ``based solely upon the use or ownership of a radar detection device. (the guideline) constitutes an unfair trade practice.''
geico, formerly government employees insurance co., which is licensed to provide auto insurance in 48 states, instituted the guideline last year. the ruling covers only maryland and does not affect geico's guideline nationwide
geico vice president august alegi called the ruling ``bizarre'' and ``shocking,'' adding the company will seek an injunction against raimondi's order and also will appeal in baltimore circuit court
i can't believe that the state is telling people to go out and kill people and that we can't do anything about it,'' alegi said. geico, which insures about 220,000 drivers in maryland, has received only three complaints in maryland about the guideline, he said
the maryland ruling stemmed from a 1987 complaint by an ohio-based trade association representing makers and sellers of the devices. the ruling was the first in the country on the issue, a lobbyist for the trade association said
the auto insurance industry in recent years has become more concerned about radar detectors, especially since the new 65-mph speed limit became effective in some areas, said john cook, vice president of the insurance institute for highway safety, an industry-financed study organization
geico was believed to be the first large insurer to institute such a guideline, industry groups said. most companies still assess risk based on driving records and convictions, said harvey seymour, vice president of the industry-funded insurance information institute
an estimated 80,000 motorists in maryland and 4 million nationally use radar detectors; the devices are illegal only in washington, d.c., connecticut and virginia
prince charles returned to switzerland today to visit a friend who broke both legs in an avalanche that killed another of the prince's skiing companions and nearly engulfed him
the queen's flight plane, flown by charles, arrived at zurich airport at 12:40 p.m., airport officials said
buckingham palace said the heir to britain's throne was paying a private visit to patricia palmer-tomkinson at the hospital in davos where she is recovering. she underwent further surgery thursday
mrs. palmer-tomkinson and her husband were in the royal party on the slopes of the alpine resort of klosters when the avalanche struck march 10. the palace said charles traveled without any other members of the royal family
meanwhile, the palace refused to comment on a report in the sun, a london tabloid, saying a swiss investigator told it the royal skiing party was responsible for the snowslide
the sun claimed the finding emerged from what it said was a scientific investigation by the local chief of ski police, christian kasper
kasper, however, told a reporter: ``i would not say anything before the investigation was finished.''
a spokesman for the prosecutor's office, albert largiader, said: ``kasper is a private person. he has nothing at all to do with the investigation.''
charles and five companions were skiing off kloster's regular ski runs when the avalanche occurred
british army officer maj. hugh lindsay, 34, was killed, and mrs. palmer-tomkinson was buried with him in the snow. charles and the rest of the party managed to ski clear and were uninjured
they're fitting ``big stan'' with suspenders to keep his outerwear on when the hard wind blows. after all, you can't have someone 1,136 feet tall shedding 275-pound marble slabs
big stan'' is the nickname of the downtown amoco corp. headquarters, formerly the standard oil building. it's the world's fourth-tallest building, and is in danger of losing some of its sheathing, officials say
as a result, amoco will install steel ``suspenders'' to keep the white marble in place, engineering manager shelby pierce said thursday
the sheathing slabs are starting to curl or ``bow'' after 15 years in place, said pierce. the slabs are 1\-inch thick and measure 4 feet 2 inches by 3 feet 9 inches. beginning next week, workers will begin installing bolted-in stainless steel straps, one-sixteenth of an inch thick and 2 inches wide, at the southeast corner of the building at a minimum cost of $1 million
we're looking at an area where the most severe bows occur,'' he said. ``the southeast corner gets most exposure to sun and thermal cycles and heavy wind.''
pierce said company officials first noticed the problem in 1979. by last november, the condition of the marble began to worsen, and officials decided to reinforce the marble
while workers spend six weeks reinforcing the southeast corner, engineers will be checking the rest of the building to see if more drastic measures need to be taken. if the strapping doesn't work, amoco may have to strip the building of its gleaming white facade, he said
a man fell to his death early today after he apparently jumped from the 86th-floor observation deck of the empire state building and landed on a ledge five floors below, officials said
steven murkey, 24, was pronounced dead at 12:25 a.m. today in the emergency room of bellevue hospital center, the hospital's night supervisor robert frazier said
two witnesses at the observatory saw the man jump, but fled before police could question them, said police officer paul pisano
an ambulance crew called to the skyscraper at 11:38 p.m. thursday pulled him inside from a window on the 81st floor, authorities said
emergency medical services capt. don rothschild said the man may have climbed over a fence around the observation deck of the 102-story building, the city's second-talest and a popular tourist attraction
a security guard at the empire state building said no one would be available from there to answer questions until later today
there have been more than 30 suicides at the skyscraper, the world's tallest when it opened in 1931. it since has been surpassed, first by the world trade center in new york, then by the sears tower in chicago
most of those who have leaped to their deaths never made it to the street, landing instead on one of the building's setbacks. gorbachev's departure. no pickup.</note>
the soviet union today praised the practice of socialist self-management pioneered by yugoslavia and said it should prove useful in modernizing the soviet economic system
in a joint declaration issued as soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev ended a five-day visit to yugoslavia, the two nations also signaled other eastern european nations they are free to follow ``any paths to socialism'' without fear of soviet intervention
no one has a monopoly over the truth,'' the document declared, echoing similar pledges gorbachev made in speeches in prague a year ago and in moscow last november. ``the two sides declare that they have no pretensions of imposing their concepts of social development on anyone.''
it said the ``success of any path to socialism'' is tested by practice
this was the first time that view had been outlined in a formal, written statement of policy
under socialist self-management, yugoslavia has begun decentralizing its economy, giving plants and other enterprises local control
the unsigned document was exchanged by gorbachev and yugoslav president lazar mojsov on tuesday but was withheld until today. it supersedes landmark declarations issued in 1955 and 1956 formally acknowledging communist yugoslavia's independence from the soviet bloc
the late josip broz tito's determination to pursue a non-aligned foreign policy led to his break with moscow in 1948 and an economic blockade of yugoslavia until after the death of soviet dictator josef stalin in 1953
gorbachev's visit is the first by a soviet leader here since tito's death in 1980. it gave him a first-hand look at a decentralized economic system that has been developing for more than 35 years along the lines he is seeking to implement in the soviet union
the declaration constitutes his first formal acknowledgement that the system has applications at home. in its formative years, self-management was denounced by the kremlin as heresy and proof that yugoslavia was embarked on a revisionist road
the two sides consider the development of socialist self-management, in keeping with the specificities of each country, to be of the highest importance,'' the document said. ``it ensures the genuine authority of the people and the freedom of the individual.''
earlier in the week, gorbachev expressed some reservations about giving enterprises too much independence from central authority
at a plant that exports robots to the united states and the soviet union, gorbachev told the factory's workers council, which has nominal control of the plant, that ``we have to maintain a regulatory role at the center to safeguard us against mistakes, particularly because the country of the soviet union is so large.''
but in the declaration, the two sides paid particular tribute to self-management without corresponding mention of soviet economic reforms. those reforms are known as ``perestroika,'' or restructuring
yugoslavia's experience,'' it said, ``gained in the development of the political system of socialist self-management, and the orientation to consistently put into practice the principles of socialist self-management by the people of the soviet union, open up new possibilities for benefitting from each other's perceptions on the contemporary forms and methods of functioning of self-management.''
the two sides also called for ``a radical reform of international economic relations.''
without making specific proposals, the declaration cited ``the problem of the enormous foreign debt of most developing countries, discrimination against them in the field of trade and their limited access to technical and technological achievements.''
yugoslavia is engulfed in its worst economic crisis since world war ii, in part due to the $20 billion it owes western creditors
after delaying his departure for an hour to do some sightseeing in dubrovnik, a famed resort city on the adriatic, gorbachev and his wife, raisa, left yugoslavia to return to moscow
earlier, gorbachev toured a 17th century cathedral in what was believed to be his first visit to a roman catholic church, at least since taking over as soviet leader three years ago. as a communist, gorbachev is officially an atheist, although his mother is said to be russian orthodox and reportedly attends church regularly in her home village in southern russia
scientists have found they can create highly accurate animal versions of human diseases by inserting scrambled genes into unborn mice
the new technique should allow researchers in some cases to create animal models on demand
such laboratory animals have long been important tools for studying and curing illnesses. but until now, they have been developed only by breeding animals to bring out naturally occurring defects
in the latest experiments, researchers from the whitehead institute for biomedical research at massachusetts institute of technology produced so-called ``transgenic'' mice, animals with an extra, mutant copy of a normal gene
this bad gene contained the same genetic error that causes a fatal human birth defect called osteogenesis imperfecta type ii. as a result, the mice were born with rubbery and missing bones, just like humans with this disorder
a report on the research, directed by dr. rudolf jaenisch, was published in the march 10 issue of the british journal nature
this study constitutes the first example of the generation of an animal model of a human genetic disease by introducing precisely defined alterations into the normal gene and then transferring the mutant gene into transgenic mice,'' the researchers wrote
at the university of washington, dr. peter byers said the new technique should help researchers understand diseases that cause short stature and a variety of other disorders resulting from defective genes
you now have the potential to do that with almost any other gene in which you can make mutations,'' byers said. ``it's a way of finding out more about other genes and their functions.''
although many diseases are thought to arise from genetic defects, the precise genetic causes are still unknown
researchers say it should be possible to tinker with specific mouse genes, put them into unborn mice and then see if the animals have diseases that resemble human ailments
the mit research was conducted on the gene that produces type 1 collagen, a material essential for healthy bones and tendons
the human collagen molecule is a chain of 1,000 amino acids. of these, 333 are the amino acid glycine. if just one glycine in this chain is replaced by another amino acid, the collagen is defective and the disease osteogenesis imperfecta results
the blueprint that the body uses to assemble these amino acids is contained in one gene. if this code is garbled by a single random mutation, the gene can instruct the body to build collagen incorrectly, putting glycine in the wrong place
the researchers made this kind of mutation in the gene that produces type 1 collagen in mice. they transferred the genes into single-cell mouse embryos
the genes produced defective collagen and the mice were born with the same defects as babies with osteogenesis imperfecta
some of them were dramatic,'' jaenisch said. ``they were missing bones. you poke their heads, and there is just no bone in them.''
having an animal model for osteogenesis imperfecta should help researchers learn more about the disease, but it isn't likely to produce a way to treat it because the defect does its lethal damage before birth
one potential use of the technique, jaenisch said, would be to learn how the body uses other kinds of collagen
there are 20 different collagens, and nobody knows what the functions of these collagens are,'' he said in an interview. ``for any of these collagens, this approach will be perfectly suited.''
a 25-year-old steelworker who had been recommended for medical retirement after a foot injury walked into the company doctor's office with a shotgun and killed him, authorities said
robert jimenez of antioch shot dr. john irion in the head and chest thursday, said contra costa county sheriff's lt. telford terry. ``he set the shotgun down and waited for the arrival of sheriff's deputies,'' said terry
irion, 63, was pronounced dead at his office at the uss-posco steel plant
he had recommended that jimenez be placed on medical retirement after a grinding wheel fell on jimenez's foot at work, crushing it and causing a severe disability that made him miss work frequently, terry said. ``apparently he was going to be retired and he didn't want to be retired.''
jimenez was taken to the county jail in martinez and booked for investigation of murder
we're just in shock,'' said calvin burgess, one of jimenez's foremen. he said plant officials met wednesday to decide whether jimenez should return from disability to take on a ``light job'' of teaching new roll grinders
but it didn't work out, and the company decided against it,'' he said
company spokesman earl macintyre declined additional comment
former mayor dianne feinstein has been named to the board of bancal tri-state corp. and its bank of california subsidiary
i'm a private citizen and not looking to make any political decisions this year,'' she said thursday after her election to the board. feinstein said the job with the san francisco-based bank is ``an opportunity for me to learn more about a major business in the bay area and the state of california.''
the bancal holding company, which does business in california, oregon and washington, has approximately $4 billion in assets
the board was expanded from 15 to 16 members to make room for the ex-mayor, who attended her first meeting after her election and was assigned to the trust committee. trust operations account for 30 percent of the bank's business
i'm just a beginner,'' she said later. ``i'm learning.''
the job pays $10,000 a year plus $500 per board meeting and $400 for each committee meeting, up to a total of $19,000, a bank spokeswoman said. it marks feinstein's first professional venture since leaving office two months ago. following noon prayers. picks up 7th graf, `mohammed abu ...' edits to tighten.</note>
israeli troops fired on rock-throwing demonstrators after moslem prayers today in the occupied gaza strip and killed one arab, the army said. hospital officials said another 18 were wounded
in the occupied west bank city of ramallah, two young protesters suffered bullet wounds in a clash with troops following noon prayer services, a doctor at ramallah hospital said
one was shot in the abdomen and was in serious condition, while the other was shot in the leg
in all, protests broke out today in a dozen towns and refugee camps following moslem noon prayers, repeating a pattern established during the demonstrations which began dec. 8
a prominent arab attorney was detained in gaza, prompting protests from israeli liberals, and two senior cabinet ministers urged defense minister yitzhak rabin to impose tougher measures against palestinian protesters
security forces detained two israelis found with an arsenal of weapons and suspected of planning anti-arab attacks, police said. the two were identified as moshe vinokor of rishon lezion and gershon luxemburg of jerusalem, both 44
in the gaza strip, army spokesmen confirmed one palestinian was killed in a clash at the shati refugee camp. officials at shifa hospital identified the victim as 24-year-old hani abu hamam
the fatality brought to 101 the number of palestinians killed in more than 14 weeks of unrest in the israeli-occupied territories, according to u.n. figures
shifa officials said they treated 14 other palestinians wounded by gunfire at shati. officials at nearby ahli arab hospital said they treated three other gunshot cases from shati and one from gaza city
the army spokesmen said initial reports showed three palestinians were wounded in shati, but they were checking hospital reports of additional woundings
an arab reporter said he saw troops in shati fire tear gas, rubber bullets and live ammunition at hundreds of palestinians who threw rocks at soldiers after coming out of the noon prayers at main al-gharbi mosque
he said an army helicopter also dropped tear gas on the crowd, which had been aroused by morning clashes between troops and young arabs in the narrow streets of the camp
the daily haaretz quoted transport minister chaim corfu as saying troops should shoot stone-throwers through the heart
minister without portfolio yitzhak modai told the daily maariv the disturbances never would have gained strength if soldiers had fired directly on protesters from the start
mohammed abu shaban, the vice president of the gaza bar association, was picked up late thursday after a tel aviv protest gathering. israeli officials alleged he was involved in subversive activities
abu shaban has represented several gazans in appeals to the israeli supreme court. tel aviv university professors and the left-wing citizens' rights movement protested the detention and demanded his release
economic boycotts by palestinians appeared to be having some effect. haaretz reported that revenues from a sales and service tax paid by palestinians had dropped by 20 percent during the last two months
on thursday, two masked palestinians armed with a pistol and a soviet-designed kalashnikov assault rifle shot and wounded an israeli civilian in the gaza strip for the first time since the unrest began
also thursday, israeli media said secretary of state george p. shultz may return to the region by early april to promote his arab-israeli peace plan
university of colorado regents have voted not to divest a $300,000 investment in a company doing business in south africa
the regents voted 7-1 thursday against divestment, despite opposition from about 80 students who attended the meeting. several of the students staged a one-hour occupation of the room while the regents broke for lunch
students rushed to the regents' tables and jumped onto them, breaking one. they rapped regents' nameplates on the table and tossed papers across the room. some yelled, ``free our bloody dollars.'' no one was arrested
cu spokeswoman pauline coker said the university's only investment in a firm doing business with south africa is slightly more than $300,000 in caterpillar co. bonds that mature in 1992
student michelle clifford had said chances the regents would vote to divest were slim. ``but this is just the beginning,'' she said
about 100 students at cu's boulder campus staged a ``die-in'' wednesday in an effort to dramatize south african repression. clifford said students carried toy guns and shot others who pretended to die
up to 130 students have been spending nights in makeshift shanties for the past two weeks to dramatize opposition to apartheid. a shanty also was put up on wednesday in denver at the campus shared by the university of colorado, metropolitan state college and denver community college
delegates of south korea's two main opposition parties ran into trouble today as they tried to forge a united front against the government
they were seeking a merger after kim dae-jung quit as president of the party for peace and democracy thursday. kim young-sam had resigned as leader of the larger reunification democratic party in february
both men ran in december's presidential election, dividing opposition votes and allowing victory for government candidate roh tae-woo. the two kims had been under pressure since then to step down and clear the way for a united opposition
but the reunification democratic party insisted today it should have the right to name the main opposition leader and to pick the lion's share of candidates for national assembly elections, expected on april 26. the smaller party, however, insisted on a strong voice in picking candidates and leadership
announcing its own candidates today for the upcoming election, the ruling democratic justice party dropped several hard-line legislators. party leaders said they were cut in efforts to end authoritarian rule and advance democracy
roh, a former general, helped former president chun doo-hwan take power in 1980 with military backing. roh has vowed to introduce full democracy
meanwhile, the government today stepped up its rhetoric against communist north korea. it warned that another provocation like the december bombing of a south korean civilian airliner, for which it blames north korea, would be viewed as ``a declaration of war.''
we will consider a similar incident like this a declaration of war against us and mete out strong punishment,'' defense minister oh ja-bok told local reporters
oh's statement was one of the strongest warnings against north korea since the bombing of a korean air jetliner near burma on dec. 29. all 115 people on board the flight were killed
oh said 650,000 troops under his command were fully prepared to crush any north korean provocation or attack across the border honduras.</note>
defense secretary frank c. carlucci said today that u.s. soldiers will conduct exercises in honduras for about 10 days and reiterated that there are no plans for them to engage in combat
a pentagon spokeswoman, capt. nancy laluntas, said that 1,062 troops were on the ground in honduras thursday night and that all 3,126 were expected to be in place by tonight. carlucci said on abc-tv's ``good morning america'' that only 300 had arrived in honduras, but the spokeswoman said that figure was wrong
troops being flown to honduras included the 82nd airborne from fort bragg, n.c., and the 7th light infantry division, based at fort ord, calif
the plan is for the exercise to last approximately 10 days,'' carlucci told abc
there are no plans for these troops to engage in combat, and we never comment on contingency plans, of course,'' he said
fighting continues between nicaraguan government forces and the contra rebels, with the u.s.-backed rebels forced to pull back from some of their positions, carlucci said
we don't have an accurate count of casualties, but people are being wounded and killed,'' he said
carlucci said it was also difficult to tell how many sandinista troops had crossed the honduran border because the incursion was taking place in a remote area. he said 1,500 to 2,000 sandinista troops have been amassed in the border area since march 1
asked if there had been any significant victories or defeats in the fighting, carlucci said, ``no, i wouldn't characterize it in those terms, although the freedom fighters have had to fall back a bit. they've had to abandon some of their positions and move to other positions.''
he said there were no plans to move any other u.s. land, sea or air forces into the area
carlucci said he was confident the honduran troops would ``take whatever measures they consider appropriate to defend themselves. we stand by to be helpful and we are showing our moral support through the exercise.''
file not found
a coalition of landlords and developers hopes to enlist activists for the homeless in a a five-year program to buy and renovate 5,000 vacant apartments as low-income housing, the coalition's president said
associated builders and owners of new york has created a not-for-profit corporation called affordable alternative housing for the homeless, which would buy buildings, renovate them at an estimated cost of $85,000 each and turn over management to organizations for the homeless, jerome belson said thursday
in some cases, apartments in occupied buildings would be designated for the homeless. buildings could be converted later to low-income cooperatives
major funding is expected to come from the city and state, the daily news reported today. the corporation also has the support of the real estate board of new york and the rent stabilization association
deputy mayor robert esnard called the idea ``very interesting,'' and robert hayes, founder of the coalition for the homeless, expressed cautious support. deployment</head> says he hasn't endorsed a candidate</note>
bob dole, battered by vice president george bush in a string of republican contests, laid off more campaign workers and threw a capitol hill party to thank staff and supporters, but was tenaciously clinging to his long-shot presidential bid
meanwhile, the democratic presidential contenders intensified their criticism of the reagan administration for deploying u.s. forces in central america
and democrat richard gephardt dispatched some troops of his own today _ sending dozens of congressional colleagues to stump for him in michigan in a bid to shore up his faltering campaign
michigan holds democratic caucuses on march 26, and gephardt badly needs a win. however, a new poll suggested gephardt trailed rivals jesse jackson and michael dukakis in the state
the survey of 328 likely democratic voters, conducted for the detroit free press and wxyz-tv, indicated jackson and dukakis each had 32 percent, 15 percent were undecided and gephardt had 9 percent. tennessee sen. albert gore jr. had 6 percent and paul simon 5 percent, according to the telephone survey, which had a margin of error of 5.4 percentage points
in washington, dole campaign spokeswoman dale tate said about a dozen national staff members were told thursday their jobs would end at the week's end, and top aides were working without pay. however, she said dole was still in the race
absolutely, positively nothing has changed,'' said tate. ``the senator is on the record about that.''
after losing the illinois primary to bush on tuesday, dole indicated he would stay in at least until wisconsin's primary on april 5
on the senate floor thursday, dole defended the dispatching of troops to honduras, saying nicaragua's contra rebels were being ``slaughtered by the hundreds.''
the u.s. troops were sent to conduct exercises as a show of strength after nicaraguan forces chased contras into honduras
does it make sense, even as thousands of communist troops cross the border of a free country in this hemisphere, for members of congress to make excuses for (nicaragua's) aggression, while accusing the president of the united states of fueling the fires of war in central america?'' the republican leader asked
dole said reagan should immediately resubmit a request for military aid to the rebels. the democratic contenders sharply disagreed
our policy in central america has been one of the worst fiascos of this administration,'' dukakis said as he campaigned in stratford, conn., in advance of the state's march 29 primary. ``there is no reason to have troops down there.''
sending in the troops was ``excessive and unnecessary,'' jackson said at a news conference in detroit
we are being told we have to be saved from the sandinistas,'' jackson said, adding sardonically: ``there are no sandinistas in detroit.''
gore accused the administration of failing to share sufficient information with congress about the military move
we need to know more ... about what our forces will be doing there,'' the tennessee senator said as he campaigned thursday in wintry kansas, which holds democratic caucuses on saturday. gore headed today for balmier climes _ puerto rico, which holds its primary sunday
gephardt also blasted the administration's actions in central america
in pursuit of its failed policy of support for the contras, the administration has lost its sense of direction, abandoned the rule of law, and failed to protect american national interests in a troubled region,'' he said
several dozen of gephardt's house colleagues were campaigning for him today in michigan, echoing a tactic used in iowa, when his congressional supporters fanned out around the state prior to the feb. 8 democratic caucuses. gephardt won in iowa, scoring his biggest campaign success to date
the missouri congressman was also using another strategy credited with helping him in iowa _ tough trade talk
at a union hall in dearborn, mich., the home of ford motor co., gephardt sounded a familiar theme, criticizing south korea's trade practices. a ford taurus, he said, would sell for $73,000 in south korea as a result of tariffs imposed by that nation
we're not selling too many of these cars in south korea. i wonder why,'' he said
while gephardt was in michigan, dukakis was in washington, making the rounds on capitol hill
the massachusetts governor picked up the endorsements of sens. barbara mikulski of maryland and patrick leahy of vermont
dukakis also dropped in on sen. bill bradley of new jersey, who said he was ``leaning'' toward supporting dukakis
jackson, at an islamic center in detroit, talked about the turmoil in the israeli-occupied west bank and gaza strip
there is no peace and justice about occupation,'' he said. ``let the peoples have their land. let both peoples have their peace, and give peace a chance.''
producers of a new cbs television comedy show plan to defy a writers' strike and continue making the show even after they run out of union-written scripts
cbs made the announcement about ``the smothers brothers comedy hour'' thursday, just two days after the writers guild of america rejected pleas from tv producers for special permission to continue work during the strike
the 9,000-member union went on strike against the alliance of motion picture and television producers on march 7 over residuals from foreign distribution, creative control and a management proposal to restructure residuals for one-hour tv shows sold into syndication
a session with a federal mediator last weekend failed to end the dispute, and no new talks are scheduled
a cbs spokesman, who talked on condition he not be identified, said six ``smothers brothers'' shows were planned and three scripts were in hand. when asked what would happen if the strike were still in progress when it came time for the fourth show, the spokesman said: ``i can only stand by the statement.''
production will continue,'' he said, but ``the nature of the show may change.''
under terms of the guild contract, not even cue cards can be drawn up. previously, the show's producers said production plans were postponed because of the strike
the wga, hundreds of whose members picketed the cbs-mtm studios here thursday, reacted to the announcement with a warning
if any writing is done by guild members, they'll be subject to charges,'' said union president george kirgo. ``if any writing is done by non-guild members, well, that's scab writing.''
the strike has had its biggest impact on talk and variety shows and has forced some shows into premature reruns. and iraqi attack in gulf. no pickup.</note>
iran said its forces fired 30 missiles into iraqi cities today, shot down five iraqi jets and captured two iraqi towns. persian gulf shipping sources said the iranians attacked three ships and iraq struck one
iraq said it shot seven long-range missiles into tehran. iran's official media, monitored in nicosia, reported at least one child killed and an undisclosed number of civilians wounded
the gulf sources said a japanese seaman was killed aboard the panamanian liquified gas carrier maria 2. the rest of the 20-man crew abandoned ship when it was set on fire. three were wounded, and all were rescued
the iranians, who used speedboats and a frigate, later attacked the 284,494-ton norwegian tanker berge lord, starting a small fire, and the 87,768-ton singapore-flag tanker neptune saburu. no casualties were reported
iraqi warplanes hit at least one tanker off the iranian coast in a pre-dawn attack, setting it on fire
the official iraqi news agency quoted military communiques as saying another ship was hit in a separate air raid. but there was no immediate confirmation. the report was monitored in nicosia
today's iraqi missile attacks raised to 30 the number of long-range al hussein projectiles baghdad says it has lobbed into the iranian capital since the ``war of the cities'' exploded again sunday after a two-day lull
iran's islamic republic news agency said iranian interceptors shot down three iraqi mirage f-1 fighter-bombers over the northern gulf today in two separate dogfights. irna also was monitored in nicosia
the agency said all three planes, apparently hit by air-to-air missiles, crashed into the water, killing the pilots. iraq usually uses the french-built mirages for shipping attacks
irna said two other iraqi planes, one a soviet-built sukhoi su-22 ground-attack jet, were downed by anti-aircraft fire on strafing missions thursday and today against iranian forces thrusting into northeast iraq
iran has claimed to have downed nine iraqi jets in the region since sunday. iraq has not admitted losing any aircraft
irna said revolutionary guards pushing into the mountains of northeast iraq recaptured the iranian border town of nowsud, held by the iraqis since the early days of the 7{-year-old war
it said they later overran the ``military towns'' of tawla, three miles north of nowsud, and byara a few miles further north, killing or wounding 700 iraqis and capturing 200
the iranians, driving into the region in a two-pronged offensive codenamed val-fajr-10, claim to have killed or wounded 9,200 iraqis and captured 4,000 in heavy fighting since sunday and seized 328 square miles of territory
irna reported that a broadside of 24 medium-range missiles was fired late thursday and early today into the southern industrial town of zubair near basra and the nearby towns of haretha and shubair
the iranian offensive was seen as retaliation for iraqi missile and air attacks on iranian cities since feb.29
both sides have reported hundreds of civilians killed in the attacks
iraq said it has lobbed 101 missiles into tehran, the holy city of qom and the central city of isfahan in that period
iran said it has fired 36 into baghdad and the northern city of mosul, with dozens of short-range missiles into basra and other border towns
both sides have ignored an appeal by united nations secretary-general javier perez de cuellar for a cease-fire in the ``war of the cities.''
nasa has selected 15 astronauts, 11 of them veteran space shuttle fliers, for three 1989 shuttle missions which will deploy a large space telescope, a communications satellite and a probe to venus
with thursday's announcement, six crews have been selected for shuttle missions, which are to resume aug. 4. the shuttle fleet has been grounded since the challenger explosion that killed seven astronauts in january 1986
shuttle mission sts-29, scheduled for launch jan. 19, 1989, will be commanded by navy capt. michael l. coats. the others are air force col. john e. blaha, marine cols. robert c. springer and james f. buchli and james p. bagian. they will release the third in a series of tracking and data relay satellites for communications
sts stands for space transportation system
navy capt. david m. walker will command sts-30, set for launch april 27, 1989. with him will be air force col. ronald j. grabe, air force maj. mark c. lee, norman e. thagard and mary l. cleave. their mission will start planetary probe magellan on its way to map the entire surface of venus with radar
the sts-31 mission will feature deployment of the hubble space telescope and is set for june 1, 1989. air force col. loren j. shriver will command the flight. the others are marine col. charles f. bolden, kathryn d. sullivan, steven a. hawley and navy capt. bruce mccandless
blaha, springer, bagian and lee will be making their first shuttle flights
a baby with a fatal birth defect whose vital organs doctors had hoped to give to others has been removed from a respirator because he showed no signs of brain death within a seven-day period
the baby, born with a fatal condition known as anencephaly, in which most of the brain and skull are missing, was taken off a respirator thursday, said loma linda medical center spokewoman anita rockwell
he is being kept comfortable and is being given fluids,'' she said
meanwhile, a second anencephalic youngster, known as baby cassandra, entered her second day on a respirator thursday, and ms. rockwell said she was beginning to show signs of impending brain death
loma linda has developed the nation's first medical guidelines for preserving anencephalics' hearts and other vital organs to be transplanted to critically ill infants. however, no anencephalic donor babies have met the hospital's criteria
under the hospital's donor guidelines, infants are placed on life-support systems for seven days. if doctors determine an infant is brain dead within that time the hospital will alert organ procurement agencies nationwide and a search for a suitable recipient will begin
ms. rockwell said the criteria for brain death requires that an infant show an absence of eye reflexes, have dilated pupils, be in a coma and be unable to breathe on his or her own
the life-support system helps prevent the infant's heart, liver and other vital organs from deteriorating until doctors have determined that the baby is brain dead
the hospital's guidelines, including the seven-day limit on life-support machines, was devised to address ethical questions surrounding the use of doomed anencephalics as organ donors
if the infant is not declared brain dead within seven days, it is taken off the respirator and allowed to die naturally without further consideration as a donor
ms. rockwell said anencephalic youngsters die very quickly after being removed from life-support systems
a federal employee fired for refusing to wear a coat and tie for an identification photograph says he'll appeal, arguing that the dress requirement is discriminatory
roger arnold, whose dismissal from his $36,000-a-year job was effective today, said the controversy was solely over the photograph, not his attire on the job. he said he has not worn a coat and tie at work since the late 1970s and last wore a tie at his son's wedding in 1983
ties just don't serve any purpose in my life,'' said arnold, 50, of duxbury, an employee of the bureau of alcohol, tobacco and firearms who checked wineries, distilleries and firearm manufacturers for federal license compliance
arnold, a 17-year atf employee, said his objection to the dress requirement was based on his dislike for business attire, and the fact that no clothing requirement was placed on female atf employees posing for identification photographs
personally, it was a matter of principles,'' said arnold. ``but when i looked at the regulations, it was apparent they were discriminatory. it placed all the clothing burden on men.''
arnold said he will appeal the dismissal to the merit systems protection board and the equal employment opportunity commission
dot koester, an atf spokeswoman in washington, d.c., said arnold is the first atf employee to be fired over a clothing issue
koester said the government requires coats and ties for identification photographs but does not have a specific dress code for the atf
we just expect our employees to look and dress like the professionals they are,'' said koester
she said the issue of arnold's dress was raised only last year because a change in atf identifications required new photographs be taken
arnold was reprimanded in writing and suspended without pay twice before his dismissal after he was first asked to wear a coat and tie in january 1987, said koester
this is not something that just came up,'' she said. ``mr. arnold has been fighting us for quite a while.''
it's good to stand up for your principles,'' said arnold. ``but with no job, things are going to be tight.'' quotes from defense lawyer. picks up 3rd graf, `letsoara was ...' edits to conform.</note>
a black man who was scheduled to hang with the ``sharpeville six'' today went to the gallows alone after a judge granted a stay of execution for the six
the pre-dawn hanging of tsepo letsoara, 24, concluded without fanfare. world leaders, clergymen and politicians continued to plea with the government to save the five condemned black men and one woman
barbed wire and police armored vehicles lined the road to pretoria central prison today
the government had ignored an international appeal for clemency and left the case in the hands of a pretoria supreme court judge, who on thursday granted the six a month to appeal for a new trial
attorney prakash diar said today the defense team had already begun preparing a substantive application to reopen the trial and requestion government witnesses, including one whose admission of perjury was the basis for the stay of execution
police gave no explanation for the increased security around the prison. letsoara was convicted of the murder of a black woman in a port elizabeth township in october 1985, during nationwide racial unrest. the victim, grace mvetye, was killed by the ``necklace'' method, in which a gasoline-soaked tire was placed around her neck and set ablaze
police have not said whether the slaying was politically motivated
pretoria supreme court justice willem human granted the stay for the six after defense lawyers presented evidence of perjury by one of the prosecution's chief witnesses
the case is controversial because the six were convicted under the principle of ``common cause,'' which held them responsible for the september 1984 death of town councilor jacob dlamini because they were among a mob of 100 that stoned and burned dlamini to death in sharpeville
dlamini was killed on the first day of riots that lasted nearly three years and claimed more than 2,500 black lives
president p.w. botha had ignored pleas from leaders of most western nations and from countries and organizations around the world to stop the executions. the government said human's decision ``proves the wisdom of the state president and his ministers in deciding not to impede the due process of law.''
the government also indicated a link between the scheduled hangings and a car bomb that exploded thursday in krugersdorp, killing three black people and injuring 20 others. the explosion occurred in a magistrate's court where the sharpeville six had been held briefly between their arrest and trial
police offered a $25,000 reward for information leading to the arrest of a white man they say is a member of the outlawed, anti-apartheid african national congress. the man was described as the prime suspect in the bombing
deputy minister of information stoffel van der merwe said neither pressure from overseas nor car bombs would persuade the government to interfere in a court case
the star, an independent johannesburg newspaper, reported today that botha granted clemency three weeks ago to a black policeman who was sentenced to death for murdering a youth two years ago in mamelodi, the black township outside pretoria
a spokesman for the department of justice said botha commuted constable george john sindane's death sentence to eight years in prison. the spokesman said sindane was one of five people whose death sentences were commuted this year
in other developments thursday,
_ attorneys said a $2.25 million wrongful arrest lawsuit was begun against the ministry of law and order after charges of sedition and subversion were dropped against a black roman catholic nun and 13 others who lived in black townships outside krugersdorp
sister bernard ncube, president of the federation of transvaal women, spent 16 months in detention, including 13 in solitary confinement, after being charged. the state alleged that the group established ``kangaroo'' courts, campaigned against the police and initiated a boycott of white-owned shops and buses
the charges were dropped thursday after the prosecution refused to supply a court with details of the alleged acts
_ also, the attorney for freed african national congress leader govan mbeki said the government denied his request for a passport, which he sought to visit his three children living in exile. attorney priscilla jana said no reason was given for the denial
mbeki was freed from prison in november after serving 24 years of a life sentence for treason and sabotage in connection with his activities as national chairman of the anc. his oldest son, thabo, is an executive member of the anc in exile in lusaka, zambia
since his release from prison, mbeki has been restricted to the port elizabeth area, and banned from giving public speeches or news interviews
the u.s. immigration and naturalization service will take to the airwaves in an effort to persuade more aliens to tune in to immigration amnesty before the may 4 deadline
the ins, in cooperation with a dallas-based spanish-language network, intends to blanket the state with a three-hour broadcast message saturday morning, march 26
the program will originate at the ins legalization center in dallas and will be carried on 14 spanish-language radio stations in texas and a 15th station in albuquerque, n.m
most or all the stations will hold live remote broadcasts from their local legalization centers and each will go statewide for a few minutes in a phone linkup, ins spokesman john armistead said thursday in dallas
we're going to have a big shindig. it's going to be a giant promotion,'' said zoltan csanyi, news director for kama-am, an el paso spanish-language station. ``we're working with the ins to promote that fact that the amnesty deadline is near.''
kama will broadcast live from the el paso legalization center, csanyi said
the promotion is for people ``who haven't been listening to the news or who have been putting it off,'' csanyi said. ``we're here to tell them time is running out and they have only a few days.''
under the immigration reform and control act of 1986, people who have lived in the united states illegally since before jan. 1, 1982, can apply for amnesty and obtain temporary residency and the right to work legally. but they must apply by may 4
amnesty recipients later can apply for permanent residency and eventually apply for u.s. citizenship
ins officials also are answering questions from potential amnesty applicants on live call-in radio shows during the last eight weeks of the application period
about 20 radio stations belonging to the spanish information service network carry the weekly call-in show, which will move to a different location most weeks. it has been broadcast so far from houston and san antonio. other shows will be broadcast from dallas and el paso
during the 55-minute show, ins officials answer questions about amnesty requirements, paperwork delays, proper documentation and other topics, sis reporter bertha obregon said
the response has been incredible,'' ms. obregon said. ``about 10 (phone) lines are available, and believe me, we use them all.'' corrects name from brinks to brink's.</note>
police said today they recovered nearly all of the $8 million that disappeared last month from a plane carrying the money from the united states to argentina
we're counting the money, and very little is missing,'' said nilo augusto batista, the police official in charge of investigating the theft
one person was arrested before dawn in connection with the disappearance, and that arrest led to several others, batista said. the official said all in custody were brazilians and that their names would be released later
the money was part of a $52 million shipment from the federal reserve board in new york to the central bank of argentina that was stolen sometime between feb. 4 and 5, said marven moss, a spokesman for brink's inc., based in darien, conn
the money was shipped through brink's on a routine flight aboard a commercial airliner in 13 bags and was made up of new, consecutively numbered $100 bills, moss said
the theft was discovered when the airliner arrived in buenos aires and authorities found only 11 bags. the two missing bags contained $8 million, moss said
apparently what happened is that some people who were working at the airport on a temporary basis took the bags and didn't realize what they took. they thought it was (music) cassettes. then, they get home and realize they have $8 million,'' moss said
batista said the first break in the case came from the narcotics department of the rio de janeiro state police
even though this case was, technically, not in the drug area, our people followed the tip, and the result was nearly total success,'' batista said
he said the missing dollars were traced to several brazilian states, where the thieves tried to exchange them, apparently for other american dollars or for foreign currency
they didn't get a chance to spend much,'' the official said
but moss said brazilian drug agents recovered virtually all the cash today during a drug but. those who stole the money apparently used some of the cash to buy drugs, he said. the spokesman didn't have any more details on the arrest, nor the exact amount of cash recovered
the recovered money belongs to brink's, since its insurance repaid the federal reserve board for the theft, moss said
the $8 million heist was the largest in brink's history, moss said
military commanders say their troops around this strategic southern garrison town have repelled three major offensives since december by combined south african and unita rebel forces
the officers also told reporters visiting the front that they were confident of holding the region despite daily long-range shelling by south african artillery
the officers said wednesday that they expect more than 7,000 enemy troops to mount another major offensive soon from positions about 15 miles south of cuito cuanavale. the town is 190 miles north of the border of south africa-ruled south-west africa, also known as namibia
enemy troops include guerrillas of the national union for the total independence on angola, or unita, black soldiers from south-west africa and south african soldiers
angolan commanders said fighting has died down since their forces pushed back the south african-led army early this month. angolan troops now respond with artillery fire to regular barrages of south african shells
a group of foreign reporters was caught in one such barrage on wednesday when it visited a badly damaged steel and wooden bridge over the cuito river, a mile south of town
fighting picked up around cuito cuanavale in december,'' said lt. col. ngueto, the town's military commander. ``then the south africans brought in mechanized units for their most recent offensive from feb. 25 to march 1.''
the enemy has not given up the idea of taking cuito cuanavale,'' he said. ``the same units are still here.''
government forces were everywhere in the former farming community, manning anti-aircraft batteries, tank positions, defensive trenches and sophisticated radar and communications equipment
ngueto said the main objective of the south african and unita forces was to capture cuito cuanavale's military airport, a key facility for ferrying government troops and heavy equipment to the southern front from luanda. the angolan capital is 590 miles to the northwest on the atlantic coast
unita, backed by south africa and the united states, has been fighting an increasingly effective bush war since 1975 against angola's cuban- and soviet-backed government
this airfield can handle an awful lot of traffic and they want to control it to launch attacks further north in cuando-cubango province and up to central angola,'' ngueto said
he said south african and unita patrols already had traveled north along narrow corridors through the bush to launch attacks in the cuemba region of central bie province
cuemba, 190 miles north of cuito, is the farthest south african troops are thought to have penetrated into angola since 1976, when they fought alongside unita in the civil war that broke out after independence from portugal the previous year
pock marks on the walls of buildings in cuito indicated they had been sprayed by small arms fire, but the town has not been taken by south african or rebel forces, despite long months of siege
in december, south african forces blew up two sections of the cuito river bridge, which is made of heavy timbers and reinforced concrete pilings. the angolans have replaced them with makeshift ropes and planks that sag down to water level
after speaking to government sentries on the east bank of the river wednesday, reporters were heading back across the bridge when the first shell hit about 40 yards away, sending up spray from the marshy bank
seven more shells exploded as the party scrambled back to an armored vehicle and drove back through the town
the south africans shoot here off and on every day,'' maj. armindo moreira said as the shells went off. he added that some residents have had to move away from the river
angolan soldiers and cuban support troops were seen on the road out of town for about 15 miles, supporting government statements that cuban troops are in the area at the rear of angolan lines, about five miles from the front
about 40,000 cuban soldiers are based in angola, supporting the government of president jose eduardo dos santos
rep. ben nighthorse campbell, d-colo., announced today he would seek a second term in congress from colorado's 3rd district
you know how hard i worked to get it, and i'll work twice as hard to keep it,'' campbell said at a a breakfast meeting of democrats
campbell, 54, was elected to congress two years ago by upsetting republican freshman mike strang of carbondale
in 1986, he began his campaign by shocking some democratic activists when he told the 3rd district nominating assembly to ``put up or shut up'' and donate money to his campaign if he was to have a fighting chance
the necessary money was raised, and campbell defeated the better-financed strang by 6,845 votes out of more than 183,000 cast
campbell is half northern cheyenne indian and sits on the council of 44 chiefs of the montana tribe. a jeweler who runs a horse training and raising operation with his wife, linda, campbell has two children, colin, a freshman at fort lewis college, and shannan, a high school senior
campbell participated in the 1964 olympics as a member of the u.s. judo team, and carried the country's flag in closing ceremonies. enter u.s.</head>
a nursing home owner has pleaded guilty to inducing 11 irish nationals to quit their jobs and illegally enter the united states to work for him as nurses' aides and orderlies
as part of a plea agreement announced thursday, peter h. starr will be allowed to withdraw his guilty plea if u.s. district judge john j. mcnaught rejects a government recommendation that starr receive a suspended prison sentence and be placed on probation for three years
the deal also calls for starr to be fined $40,000 and to perform 1,000 hours of community service. mcnaught scheduled sentencing for may 10
starr, 34, owner of the queen anne nursing home, was indicted march 2 and charged with inducing the workers to come to the united states. he recruited the workers after being warned it was highly unlikely that they would be issued working permits, the indictment said
despite the warning, starr, who had recruited the workers with an advertisement in a dublin newspaper, assured them their work visas were being processed and that the only problem was a delay caused by passage of the new federal immigration law
because of that purported delay, starr convinced the 11 workers to enter the united states on vacation visas. to obtain those, the workers had to lie and say they never had requested permission to work in the united states
the indictment stemmed from a labor department investigation that began last year after one of the irish aliens was involved in a local police investigation
the 11 workers cooperated with the investigation and were given permission to stay in the united states through august. they can apply for residency status during that period
opposition lawmakers asked the government today to investigate whether high-ranking officials were involved in the 1984 assassination of a chinese-american journalist in the united states
a former gang member in taiwan, tung kuei-sen, testified wednesday in san mateo county superior court in california that he shot henry liu on orders of chiang hsiao-wu, son of then-president chiang ching-kuo. chiang hsiao-wu was head of taiwan's secret police at the time
liu, then 52, was gunned down in daly city south of san francisco just after he finished writing a biography critical of president chiang, who died in january of heart failure
the attorney for a man convicted of the murder by a court in taiwan said today he had evidence that his client, chen chi-li, was acting on orders of ranking nationalist government officials. attorney chen shui-pien said he would request the high court to reopen its murder trial to allow presentation of new evidence
chen chi-li, reputed head of the united bamboo gang, and his lieutenant, wu tun, were convicted by the high court in 1985 of murdering the journalist. they testified that they received orders from taiwan's chief of military intelligence at the time, vice adm. wong hsi-ling, who also was imprisoned in the case. the three are serving life terms in taiwan
the government has denied involvement in the killing and refused u.s. attempts to have chen and wu extradited for trial in the united states
the four opposition lawmakers today told the legislative yuan, taiwan's highest law-making body, that the government should not make any attempt to cover up the killing
the lawmakers requested that chiang hsiao-wu, the government's deputy trade representative in singapore, return to testify at the legislative yuan
but legislative yuan president nieh wen-ya said it would be inappropriate for the body to hold a hearing on a judicial case being tried in the united states. comment.</note>
former white house aide oliver l. north gave an employee of texas billionaire h. ross perot a letter granting him presidential authority to take $100,000 into canada as part of a failed plan to free a u.s. hostage, a published report says
the money, provided by perot, wound up being squandered on high living by a canadian who was supposed to help win the release of peter c. kilburn, the librarian at the american university in beirut who was kidnapped dec. 3, 1984, the washington post reported today
kilburn was killed by a libyan terrorist group in april 1986 in apparent retaliation for the u.s. bombing of libya
north sent perot employee jay coburn to canada in january 1986 with a letter on national security council stationery that said coburn ``is acting on official u.s. government business on behalf of the president of the united states,'' according to a copy of the letter obtained by the post
in support of this mission he has the authority to transport and disburse as necessary, u.s. $100,000,'' the letter said. ``in the event of emergency or clarification, please contact: oliver l. north.''
perot had provided the money at north's request, and coburn needed the north letter in case u.s. customs service agents stopped him at the border, the post said
perot said thursday night that he never questioned his employee concerning details of the cash delivery and didn't learn until much later the name of the hostage for whom authorities were negotiating
he told the dallas times herald the request for the money came from the nsc, but that he didn't seek to know details
this is a small event in a very active life,'' he said. ``they asked me for it. i delivered it to them and i didn't ask for any details. they've been calling me on things like this since 1969. it doesn't matter to me who's president. i did it for a simple reason _ there was an american over there who needed help.''
travelers must file a disclosure statement if they take more than $10,000 out of the country. failure to file is punishable by up to $250,000 in fines and five years in prison
coburn got into canada without difficulty and in montreal, he gave the money to a canadian citizen who had provided proof of contact with kilburn's captors
the canadian said the $100,000 was a down payment and that with it, he could arrange kilburn's release for $1 million more, said the post, which did not identify the man
the canadian contact took the money, but never came through with his end of the deal and was later observed by the cia in damascus, spending the money on high living, the post said, citing unidentified sources for the information
the post said that a senior fbi official has told congress that then-fbi director william h. webster _ who is now cia director _ approved the fbi's participation in the plan. the newspaper said the plan also was discussed with attorney general edwin meese iii
north has said repeatedly that he had express authority from his superiors for his actions. but the white house has said reagan had no knowledge of any efforts to ransom u.s. hostages in lebanon
north, who was fired from his job as an nsc aide in late 1986 following revelations of the secret sales of arms to iran and the diversion of profits from those sales to the nicaraguan contra rebels, was indicted wednesday
he was charged with conspiracy to defraud the government and commit criminal offenses against it, theft of government property and wire fraud arising from the diversion of arms-sales proceeds
he was named in nine counts charging him with obstruction of congress, making false statements, obstructing meese's nov. 21-23, 1986, inquiry by making false statements and concealing, falsifying and destroying classified government documents in nsc files
also indicted wednesday were former national security adviser john m. poindexter and arms dealers richard v. secord and albert hakim. enlistment up, issuing combat alert to nicaraguans. picks up 6th graf pvs, ``if we...'</note>
a foreign ministry spokesman indicated today that cross-border air raids by honduras could lead to war between nicaragua and the united states, and government media said young men were volunteering to fight
newspapers called on nicaraguans to maintain a combat alert in case u.s. troops invaded from honduras, where 3,200 american troops began arriving thursday
the foreign ministry blamed the united states for a honduran attack on sandinista army targets and formally protested to washington. the raid came less than two hours after the first american troops landed in honduras
contra leaders said cease-fire talks scheduled monday with the government were off unless the sandinistas left honduras. nicaraguan radio reported that anti-aircraft batteries fired on two unidentified aircraft spotted flying in from honduras on thursday night
barricada, the official newspaper of the ruling sandinista national liberation front, said neighborhood defense committees held meetings and renewed arms instruction
the order of the day: intensify combats,'' read a headline in barricada. newspapers also reported that young nicaraguan men were volunteering for military service
alejandro bendana, secretary-general of the nicaraguan foreign ministry, told ``cbs this morning:'' ``the hondurans attacked, bombed our position yesterday. this is one step that could lead to another. those (american) troops are not there on a sightseeing mission
if we don't defend the central american peace plan, if honduras does not shut down the contra operations and the united states does not end its military involvement, one step could lead to another,'' he said in an interview from managua
president daniel ortega said thursday his army was ready to ``combat and liquidate'' u.s. troops if america engaged the sandinista forces. but the united states has said american troops won't go near the area of hostilities, along the honduran-nicaraguan border
sandinista officers said two bombs fell in nicaragua and a third landed across the narrow coco river in honduran territory on thursday afternoon. reporters taken to the area by a sandinista official saw at least five bombs fall, but it was impossible to say which side of the border they landed on
a reagan administration source in washington said the honduran air force had carried out the attack
in tegucigalpa, a honduran armed forces spokesman said rockets were fired at sandinista forces in honduran territory, not in nicaragua
the journalists dived for cover as the jets roared in and the bombs struck as close as 70 yards away
the raid occurred one day after honduras and the united states accused nicaraguan troops of crossing into honduras in pursuit of contra rebels
bendana and defense ministry officials have denied the allegation, and ortega has neither denied nor admitted it
the u.s. soldiers were deployed in what the united states called a ``measured response'' to the alleged nicaraguan incursion
ortega said sandinista troops would not withdraw from nicaragua's border and were maintaining an offensive begun march 8, in which an estimated 2,000 contras had been pushed out of nicaraguan territory
foreign minister miguel d'escoto said ortega sent a diplomatic note to secretary of state george p. shultz ``formally and energetically protesting'' the thursday attack
the note assails what it calls the raid's ``terrorist character,'' saying the raid ``put in danger the lives of numerous journalists, including north american citizens.''
later, state-run voice of nicaragua radio reported that at least two unidentified aircraft flying in from honduras were spotted over the pacific coast port of corinto, about 71 miles northwest of managua, at 7:05 p.m
it said anti-aircraft batteries opened fire on the planes
in miami on thursday, a contra leader says truce talks scheduled to begin on monday are off unless sandinista troops withdraw from honduras
if this situation does not take a radical turn, we will not attend,'' said aristides sanchez, a member of the five-member directorate of the nicaraguan resistance, the contra umbrella organization
the state department said today that saudi arabia's acquisition of chinese missiles that can carry nuclear warheads is a ``disturbing'' development that could harm the security of all states in the middle east, including israel
the missile system would have a range which would include all areas of the middle east,'' spokesman rudolph boone said. ``it is another part of a disturbing regional trend in surface-to-surface missile proliferation.''
the sum total of the proliferation is a degradation of the security of all states in the region,'' he said
boone said saudi arabia has confirmed it is acquiring the missile system, which another official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said were chinese css2-class rockets with a range of 2,200 miles and the ability to carry nuclear warheads
several of the missiles are being installed, but it will be some time before they are operational, the washington post reported
state department spokesman charles e. redman said the saudi government ``has assured us categorically at the very highest level that saudi arabia does not have, nor does it intend to acquire, any nuclear capability.''
redman told the washington post that ``the government of china has stated categorically that it will not export nuclear weapons to any government. we accept these assurances in both cases.''
according to sources quoted by the post, the saudis began negotiating to purchase the missiles from beijing in 1985 after it became apparent that the united states, the kingdom's principal weapons supplier, would be prevented by congressional opposition from selling saudi arabia up to 48 f-15 jet fighters
congress agreed late last year to permit the sale of 24 f-15s on a replacement basis to keep saudi air strength at its current levels
the css2 is believed to be an offshoot of the rocket used by china to launch its first satellite in 1970. the chinese have been developing various military versions since 1979. its different models have ranges running from about 1,000 miles to 2,200 miles, and the sources said the saudis are believed to have acquired the most advanced type. pvs 6th (last) graf, biden, chairman.</note>
doctors inserted a tiny filter into one of sen. joseph r. biden jr.'s major veins to intercept any additional blood clots similar to one that lodged in a lung last week, a spokesman for walter reed army medical center said today
spokesman jim steuve said biden, a delaware democrat, was ``in good condition, alert, happy and in no pain'' after the surgery thursday afternoon
steuve said biden, 45, was eating well and could be expected to remain in the hospital for several days
a catheter was used to insert the device into the vena cava, a large vein in the abdomen that carries blood to the heart, steuve said
the purpose of the filter is to catch dislodged clots traveling in the bloodstream and keep them from damaging the brain, heart, lungs or other vital organs, he said
the clot that lodged in biden's lung caused no damage and eventually will be aborbed into the bloodstream, with the lung acting as a natural filter, steuve said
biden, chairman of the senate judiciary committee, plans to return to his home near wilmington to continue recuperating from surgery feb. 12 to correct an aneurysm on a weak wall of an artery to the brain. a second, smaller aneurysm was found on the opposite side of his brain, but no date has been set for the second surgery
residents of the capital walked to work or paid inflated fares on crowded gypsy vehicles today as a guerrilla-called transit strike took hold two days before nationwide elections
the u.s.-backed government promised to ensure safe transport in the face of threats by the leftist insurgents trying to disrupt sunday's legislative and municipal voting
but none of the privately owned buses _ and few cars _ braved the streets of san salvador for what would normally be the morning rush hour
a few pickup and van owners, however, offered rides for up to six times the normal bus fare of about 10 cents
army trucks loaded with soldiers rumbled through town, and troops with assault rifles guarded gas stations. the guerrillas said gas stations selling fuel during the strike would be considered ``military objectives.''
the guerrillas have also declared polling places ``military objectives'' and warned people to stay away
the indefinite nationwide strike began at midnight. police said two buses headed for the eastern city of usulutan were stopped by guerrillas before dawn, emptied and burned
the transport ban is the latest chapter in a violent guerrilla campaign against the elections
the rebels say peace should come before elections. they demand a share of power in exchange for laying down their arms, but the government of president jose napoleon duarte rejects this
the defense ministry has said it will deploy 53,000 of its 56,000 troops to safeguard the voting. defense minister gen. eugenio vides casanova said his men could guarantee voter security at 244 of the nation's 262 polling places
the threat against polling places and service stations came in a statement from one of the leader of one of guerrilla's new urban units, the pedro castillo urban command
the command is a unit of the people's revolutionary army, one of five guerrilla groups united in the faribundo marti national liberation front. it was not clear if the rebel leader spoke for the entire front or just his unit
it warned people ``to avoid gathering at polling places because, due to the presence of troops, they ... will be considered military targets.''
channel 6 television broadcast the statement wednesday and later provided a transcript to the associated press
the urban commando cells are going to take a series of actions to repudiate the elections and to repudiate u.s. intervention in our country,'' the guerrilla leader known as commander ester said
the united states gave el salvador almost $600 million in aid last year, more than it gave any other country in the western hemisphere
el salvador's civil was has claiemd 65,000 lives since it began in 1979
the federal government announced today that it will give illegal aliens who file applications in the last month of the amnesty program 60 additional days to submit documentation to support their applications
the move is designed to counter criticism from congress over the u.s. immigration and naturalization service's refusal to extend the may 4 deadline for submitting applications
at a news conference, attorney general edwin meese iii said the 60-day extension on submitting supporting information will give all eligible aliens ample opportunity to take advantage of the chance to become legal u.s. residents. it would apply to applications submitted between april 4 and may 4
it is our hope that on may 4 every single person who is eligible for legalization will have applied,'' meese told reporters at an immigration office in arlington, va
but under the simplified filing policy announced by meese and immigration commissioner alan nelson, applicants will not be required to produce time-consuming supporting documentation or medical information for at least 60 days
nelson said that applicants would be scheduled for an interview after july 5 and that at that time documentation would be required
the application can be completed in less than 30 minutes,'' nelson said. ``without the requirement of immediate documentation, there is no reason for any qualified applicant not to file by the may 4 deadline.''
with six weeks to go, the amnesty program has received just over 1 million applications and will fall short of its early estimate of 2 million
legislation has been introduced in congress to extend the deadline for one more year
ins officials oppose any extensions
under the program, illegal immigrants who have lived in the united states since jan. 1, 1982, can be granted amnesty if they provide documentation supporting their claim of living here for the past six years
meese and nelson also announced another change in the program which would give private groups more time to locate aliens who are eligible for amnesty
in the past, these private groups assisting the immigration service collected fees only after they had completed filling out forms for an applicant, a process that can take three hours or longer
under the change, the groups will be given a referral fee for each applicant after they have directed an alien to an ins legalization office
the u.s. parole commission has decided to grant early release from prison to an indian fisherman and his son convicted of violating federal wildlife laws in what has become called ``salmonscam.''
sens. daniel evans, r-wash., and daniel inouye, d-hawaii, said in a joint statement thursday that david sohappy sr., 62, will be eligible for release may 17, and his 29-year-old son, david jr., on may 18
the commission had set release dates of march 17, 1989, for the elder sohappy and sept. 18, 1988, for his son
however, neither sohappy considered the decision a victory
a victory would be my walking out of here today,'' said the elder
both sohappys have denied any wrongdoing and vowed to continue their fight for vindication. they have served 18 months of their 30-month minimum sentence at the geiger correctional facility near spokane
the sohappys were among five yakima indians convicted of illegally catching and selling columbia river salmon and steelhead trout in 1983
a yakima tribal court jury in 1987 acquitted the sohappys and three other tribal members convicted in the federal case
during the tribal trial, the fishermen argued they were following ancient religious practices and treaty rights in catching fish out of season
the president has granted pardons and reduced sentences to 2,044 prisoners to mark tunisian independence day, a government official said friday
the decree of president zine el abidine ben ali applies to both political prisoners and inmates accused of common crimes, according to the official
the north african nation celebrates its 32nd anniversary of independence from france on sunday
a giant panda in the wild lives an average of 13 years, which is not as long a some scholars have estimated, a report said friday
scholars have debated the life expectancy of the giant pandas, native only to central and southwestern china, with estimates ranging from 20 to 30 years
the hong kong china news service said chinese researcher wei fuwen and his colleagues studied the teeth of 69 pandas in their research. the report did not provide the researchers' exact affiliation
though the researchers estimated the average lifespan as 13 years, they said some animals could live twice that long
china's panda population, just under 1,000, has been declining in the past five years. the drop has been blamed on a rare flowering cycle of the arrow bamboo, their dietary staple, which has caused many plants to whither and die
south korea will send its own version of the u.s. peace corps to third world countries beginning this year, government officials said friday
the program, to be funded by both the government and the u.n. development program, is aimed at transferring south korea's economic and farming expertise to developing nations in asia and africa
the u.s. peace corp was created in 1961 by president john f. kennedy to send skilled american volunteers to developing countries
under south korea's program, the first group of 50 ``youths overseas technical service corps'' volunteers will be sent to indonesia, thailand, the philippines and other developing countries. the program will cost $410,000 this year
south korea plans to increase the number of volunteers to 300 by 1992. each will serve two years abroad
fourteen weeks of unrest and israeli attempts to quell it have slowed to a trickle the traffic on this rickety wooden lifeline between palestinians and the arab world outside
both civilian and commercial traffic on the allenby and nearby adam bridges, which span the jordan river and connect the occupied west bank with jordan, is down by about 30 percent to 40 percent since the start of what palestinians call ``the uprising,'' according to a senior israeli military official
many west bank merchants, striking under plo orders, are staying home to conserve money. in addition, israeli officials have begun restricting palestinians from the territories from crossing the bridges, and some talk of banning crossings altogether until the unrest subsides
to close the bridges, to prevent travel to jordan, to prevent the flow of money from jordan ... that's tremendous pressure,'' arieh shalev, former military commander of the west bank, said on israel radio
about 1 million people a year ride buses between israeli and jordanian army emplacements on opposite sites of this 25-yard-long bridge. many are palestinians from both sides who were separated from their families when israel captured the west bank of the jordan in 1967
bent old women in long black dresses and white headscarves visit children. young palestinians in jeans travel to jobs in jordan or the persian gulf. west bank businessmen tend to shops and bank accounts across the border. together, they carry in hundreds of millions of dollars yearly for the west bank economy
each day, as many as 120 trucks rumble across the bridges with west bank building stones, vegetables and gaza citrus. the exports bring about $100 million a year to the territories
in 1968, shortly after israel captured the west bank from jordan and the gaza strip from egypt in the 1967 middle east war, israel's then-defense minister moshe dayan announced the ``open bridges'' policy
for 20 years, the bridges have remained open between two states still technically at war. for israel, they symbolize the desire to maintain normal life for the 1.5 million arabs under occupation and to coexist with jordan
but since the uprising, israeli officials have begun demanding that residents of the territories present proof of tax payment before granting bridge permits or export licenses in order to dissuade palestinians from following plo orders not to pay taxes
officials banned cross-bridge exports of stone from the west bank village of qabatiyeh to punish residents there for lynching an arab suspected of collaborating with israel. the arab had opened fire on a crowd, killing a child
israel has also limited the amount of money people can bring in from jordan without prior permission to 400 jordanian dinars or $1,000. the restrictions are aimed at preventing palestine liberation organization funds from reaching arab activists in the territories
but the new rules are ominious signs for west bank money changers, who are vital to the area's economy, as well as for families there who depend on funds sent home by hundreds of thousands of relatives working in kuwait, saudi arabia and jordan
many west bank residents have bank accounts and business interests in jordan. most still carry jordanian passports
but even with permits, travelers from either side must endure five israeli and jordanian checkpoints, as well as rigorous israeli inspections of their luggage
many palestinians in jordan say they refuse to cross the bridge because they fear being humiliated by inspectors, who they say often subject arrivals to strip-searches
but israeli officials say the searches are necessary to prevent palestinian activists from smuggling in weapons, which can be hidden in toys, food or clothes. they say they only conduct body searches on those who appear suspicious
you have to see the context of it,'' said an army spokesman who escorted reporters through the terminal. ``israel and jordan are at war, and yet this (bridge traffic) is still going on.''
at the barn-like israeli inspection post near the bridge, reporters recently saw soldiers sifting through packages of medicine, throat lozenges, necklaces and hair combs they had confiscated from arabs. a roman catholic nun who refused to give her name said inspectors had confiscated church candles and a rosary
the vast structure, often teeming with people, was almost empty. soldiers chatted idly over cups of coffee. five palestinians sat waiting to be questioned by authorities about their trips
we are treated like animals,'' at the bridge, complained jerusalem physician jawad ghoshe, 45, who said he had visited his mother and brothers in jordan. ``i have been waiting for two hours, and nothing is happening.''
the woman who admitted injecting comedian john belushi with the ``speedball'' of heroin and cocaine that killed him returned to canada after waiving a deportation hearing, an official said today
cathy evelyn smith, 40, was put on a flight to vancouver by immigration and naturalization service officers, spokesman ron rogers said. ``she was a voluntary deportee. we returned her to her home country last night, where she is now free.''
the onetime rock singer was paroled wednesday from the california institution for women in frontera, 35 miles east of los angeles, after serving 15 months
facility superintendent hal tanner said ms. smith had been a ``model prisoner.''
ms. smith was sentenced to prison after pleading guilty to involuntary manslaughter and three drug charges in the belushi case
belushi, 33, was found dead march 5, 1982, in a bungalow at the chateau marmont hotel on the sunset strip
belushi, the portly comic who gained fame on the ``saturday night live'' television show and moved on to starring roles in such movies as ``animal house'' and ``the blues brothers,'' died after a lengthy drug binge with ms. smith and others
ms. smith later admitted she and the comic injected ``speedballs,'' a mix of cocaine and heroin, but she denied any responsibility for his death
she fled to canada, but returned in june, 1986 and entered the guilty pleas to reduced charges
originally, she was charged with second-degree murder and 13 counts of furnishing and injecting belushi with drugs
retail sales rose 0.4 percent in february, a slightly smaller increase than reported a week ago, the government said friday
the commerce department said sales last month totaled a seasonally adjusted $129.12 billion, up $525 million from the january sales level
when the sales data was first released on march 11, the government reported sales had risen 0.6 percent in february following a 0.2 percent january decline. the new data shows that sales were essentially unchanged in january
the changes reflect the department's annual benchmark revisions which update the surveys used to gather information nationwide on sales. the changes put total retail sales in 1987 at $1.511 trillion, compared with an estimate of $1.506 trillion before the revisions
the white house today denied nicaraguan charges that the united states was behind a honduran bombing raid on the remote border area where sandinista troops were skirmishing with the u.s.-backed contra rebels
asked whether the thursday bombing raid indicated that the united states had asked honduras to take a more active role, white house spokesman marlin fitzwater said, ``we haven't asked them or instructed them to do anything. we have offered our support and we have sent our forces there in defense of that.''
a nicaraguan foreign ministry spokesman in managua blamed the united states for the attack, formally protested and warned such raids could lead to war
in congress, lawmakers were condemning nicaraguan president daniel ortega as they became convinced he had ordered a military incursion into neighboring honduras, an action that renewed calls for u.s. aid to the anti-sandinista rebels
there's a feeling that mr. ortega is pretty damn stupid, indeed,'' said rep. dan glickman, d-kan., a member of the house intelligence committee who was briefed thursday on the border incursion against the contra rebels
this so-called final offensive against the contras may have made sense militarily, but it was bad politics,'' said sen. claiborne pell, chairman of the foreign relations committee
briefings for members of congress by top reagan administration officials portrayed the sandinista military action as a long-planned and skillfully executed attack that was threatening a contra command center a few miles northwest of bocay, nicaragua, just inside the honduran border
several moderate democratic house members, who were behind a failed march 3 attempt to provide strictly ``humanitarian'' aid to the rebels, said the move gave new impetus to the effort to pass an aid package
but while there was unanimity that the managua government had made a grave political miscalculation, opinions were mixed on the wisdom of president reagan's decision to deploy a 3,200-man task force to palmerola air base in honduras
defense secretary frank carlucci reiterated today that the troops were there only for ``moral support'' and that they would be kept away from combat during their 10-day training exercise
of the border clash, carlucci said information remained sketchy because of the remoteness of the area. he said fighting had resulted in casualties, but he did not know how many
interviewed on abc television, carlucci was asked whether there had been any significant victories or defeats in the fighting. ``no, i wouldn't characterize it in those terms, although the freedom fighters have had to fall back a bit,'' he said. ``they've had to abandon some of their positions and move to other positions.''
pell, d-r.i., said the move to deploy u.s. troops tended to reduce honduras to the status of a u.s. client state and ``may well be a greater threat to honduran sovereignty'' than the border incursion
and sen. john mccain, r-ariz., said reagan's response had distracted attention from the sandinista military thrust and cost the president some political leverage
a senior republican on pell's committee, sen. richard lugar, disagreed. he said the troop deployment ``indicates we are still alert'' to the situation in central america
lugar predicted that the request for military support ``will not be the last from central american democracies.''
sen. sam nunn, d-ga., chairman of the armed services committee, said the deployment was ``obviously designed to impress the sandinistas. i hope they get the message.''
there was conflict, too, on how the developments would affect cease-fire talks scheduled to resume monday in the nicaraguan town of sapoa near the costa rican border
house speaker jim wright said he had high hopes, after talking to both sides, that the discussions would lead to a cease-fire. lugar, however, said the talks ``have become more and more an academic exercise.''
in a series of briefings on capitol hill, senior administration officials and intelligence officers said the united states first detected preparations for the sandinista incursion late last month, primarily by observing troop and supply buildups at a base in northern nicaragua
roughly a week ago, movements were observed toward bocay, a nicaraguan town in a remote and mountainous area on the honduran border. it is unclear exactly when the troops first crossed the coco river into honduras, but contra forces defending a rebel command center northwest of bocay began to encounter government troops early this week, according to interviews with more than a dozen participants in the briefings
with greater-than-usual precision, some 2,000 sandinista troops had by thursday taken positions to the north, east and south of the contras' jungle command and supply post, which was being defended by about 1,300 rebel troops, the administration said
lawmakers were promised that the u.s. troops, sent from the 82nd airborne at fort bragg, n.c., and the 7th infantry at fort ord, calif., would remain far from the fighting and would not be involved in combat
the administation said sending the forces was a symbolic gesture of support for honduran president jose azcona, in response to a direct request from him wednesday night after several days of consultations
had we said no, you can imagine what it would have done for our credibility in central america,'' said assistant secretary of state elliott abrams
some in congress questioned the administration's credibility anyway, noting that azcona's written request for help was dated tuesday, and the administration had been telling lawmakers that no such request had been made as recently as wednesday afternoon
asked today about the complaints, fitzwater said, ``they were told exactly what happened, that options were being considered and no decision had been made.''
`we feel the consultations were thorough and appropriate,'' he said. ``a lot of this is just politics, and nothing can be done about that. our people felt they were fully responsive.''
abrams said the administration is considering a request for new aid for the rebels. on feb. 3, reagan narrowly lost a house vote on his last such request, and a democratic alternative was defeated, 216 to 208, a month later. a handful of votes tilted one way or the other typically determines the outcome on the longstanding and polarized issue
autoworkers at mazda motor corp.'s only u.s. car assembly plant have ratified a labor contract that will boost their salaries to levels comparable to workers at ford motor co., officials said
united auto workers spokesman karl mantyla said 90 percent of local 3000 members who voted thursday supported the contract, which covers more than 2,000 workers at the plant in flat rock, south of detroit. the workers make the mx6 for mazda and the probe for ford
the agreement, reached monday, went into effect march 7 and will run through march 3, 1991. it will give mazda's u.s. workers wage parity with ford workers by 1991, the uaw said
we are pleased with the results of our negotiations,'' said henry g. schultz, mazda director of labor relations
this agreement proves anew that the uaw can work constructively with anyone who chooses to invest in america and who seeks a constructive relationship with us,'' said uaw president owen bieber
ford assembly workers, whose uaw contract expires in 1990, earn an average $14.02 an hour. mazda workers earn $11.11, which will grow to at least $14.32 an hour by 1989, uaw spokesman frank joyce said
in addition, beginning in 1989, mazda workers will receive annual lump-sum payments equal to 3 percent of their wages, the union said. the average worker should receive about $2,500
ford workers will receive the 3 percent bonuses in the second and third years of their contract
like the ford contract, the mazda contract also includes cost-of-living adjustments. the mazda pact also contains a commitment to provide job security as long as the company remains competitive, the union and company said
if ford workers win a wage increase in 1990 negotiations, mazda workers' salaries will be adjusted to match
employees with three months service prior to negotiation of the agreement will receive a signing bonus of $750. other employees will get $250
mazda also agreed to try to negotiate a profit-sharing plan while the current three-year agreement is in effect. if negotiations fail, mazda has pledged to negotiate a profit-sharing pact for the next contract
in return for the mazda concessions, the uaw allowed the company to remain flexible by requiring fewer job classifications and less restrictive work rules than in other auto plants
the uaw has been unable to organize plants in the united states operated by 100 percent japanese-owned automakers, including honda motor co. and nissan motor co. ford owns 25 percent of mazda
we are delighted that workers at mazda's u.s. plant will enjoy the benefits of a fine uaw contract,'' bieber said. ``the agreement breaks new ground in several areas of importance to the union while assuring mazda the ability to offer well-built, high-quality automobiles in the marketplace.''
it was st. patrick's day, but the wearin' of a leprechaun costume meant ``go home'' for a postal worker
a supervisor at the lansing post office sent diane horanburg home after she showed up for work thursday in costume
it was the third time she has been sent home for wearing holiday clothes. she wore a santa claus hat for christmas 1986 and a pilgrim dress last thanksgiving. she said she filed union grievances both times
horanburg said she wore the leprechaun outfit partly to make the point that she can wear what she wants at work
you have to do something once in a while to break the boredom. i'm not a robot,'' said horanburg, 31, who helps operate a letter-sorting machine
don harants, the post office's director of city operations, said there is a policy against costumes or loose-fitting clothing that can become caught in machines
millions of asians prayed, pounded drums, and danced in the streets friday to greet total eclipse of the sun that drew a curtain of darkness across land and sea
young filipinos shot rifles and tossed firecrackers at the blackened sky. in northern india, thousands of naked men and women jostled their way into huge, sacred pools to cleanse their souls in a massive hindu ritual
i am at peace today,'' said ram avtar, dripping beads of sacred water in kurukshetra, india
the 27-year-old businessman had journeyed 450 miles to the site of the two holiest pools to fulfill his late father's final wish: a dip in sacred waters to seek salvation for his forefathers
about one million people waded or dived into kurukshetra's holy water
the eclipse was the most spectacular along a 108-mile swath that moved from the indian ocean across indonesia and the southern philippine island of mindanao during the morning hours
but a partial eclipse could be seen as far west as india and eastward into parts of australia, new guinea and the pacific islands. scientists said the eclipse would end at sunset in the gulf of alaska
along the 108-mile path, the shadow of the moon darkened the sun for up to four minutes. clouds obscured the view in jakarta, indonesia, hong kong and in the eastern mindanao city of davao, where thousands of tourists and scientists had gathered to observe the eclipse
philippines president corazon aquino flew to general davos city, where it was visible for about three minutes
wilson sinambela of indonesia's national institute of aeronautics said a total eclipse was observed in several parts of his country. he said thousands of indonesians prayed and beat drums to herald the start of the eclipse
in hong kong, hundreds of chinese went to the space museum to view the eclipse through telescopes. but clouds prevented them from doing so. instead, the museum showed video tapes of previous eclipses
in baguio city, 130 miles north of manila, pregnant women rinsed their hair with water dripped from burned rice straws
local superstition has it that babies conceived during or shortly before an eclipse will be deformed unless their mothers practice the ritual
in kurukshetra, amid the chanting of hymns and the blowing of conch shells, 3,000 naked hindu holy men were the first to enter the pools at 6:30 a.m
massive waves of men and women, some clothed, others naked, followed. the bathers pushed and shoved their way into the pools that can accommodate only about 125,000 people at a time. the eclipse lasted only half an hour
the scene was repeated, in smaller numbers, at rivers and pools across india. but kurukshetra was the most popular because legend says the hindu god lord krishna once appeared there during an ancient battle
prasanni devi said she came to kurukshetra against the wishes of her children
my children do not believe in the holy dictum,'' said the 68-year-old widow, who traveled 235 miles to the holy town. ``throughout my life i had wanted to come here in the company of my husband, but he left me alone to get salvation.''
divers and lifeguards in boats kept watch over the bathers, but no trouble was reported
in general santos city, the eclipse set off wild cheering among the thousands who watched the phenomenon in a scorching tropical heat
armed troops surrounded the two-story town hall, where teams of scientists had set up telescopes and cameras. friday was the 20th anniversary of the moslem rebel moro national liberation front which operates in this area
in zamboanga city, in western mindanao, hundreds of people fired weapons in keeping with a superstition that loud noise will scare the sun from devouring the moon. police said there were no injuries
in manila, police said four people were injured when a passenger bus collided with a jeep
the drivers were probably looking skyward when the accident occurred,'' said policeman ricardo manansala. ``it's impossible to gaze at the sky and drive a vehicle at the same time.''
solar eclipses occur when the moon positions itself between the earth and the sun. the chinese first recorded a total solar eclipse in 2137 b.c. and regarded it as a battle between the sun and a dragon
the eclipse friday was the last one in southern asia for at least 50 years
the spring equinox is near, an event that in centuries past marked the new year for everyone and still does, in spirit, for many
the vernal equinox is a marker on the great wheel of time, a reassurance of order in a world where confusion and disorder too often seem to have the upper hand,'' observed the late nature writer hal borland
it is a promise of predictable change, certain as sunrise, from the rigors of winter to the benevolence of spring. it is variety in a time of doubt and uncertainty,'' borland wrote in his book, ``twelve moons of the year.''
the actual moment of the grand event occurs this year at 4:39 a.m. est sunday, according to astronomers at the u.s. naval observatory here
that's the moment that the sun is directly above the equator and poised to begin bringing its direct rays to the northern hemisphere
it's called the equinox because it is a time when the hours of daylight and darkness are nearly equal
the amount of daylight has been growing longer since the winter solstice last december, and will keep doing so until june's summer solstice, when things start back the other way
in roman times this season marked the new year, and indeed many countries continued to celebrate new year in march until just a couple of hundred years ago
the observance may well be logical at a time of rebirth, with winter's chill fading, early flowers coming forth and planting getting under way for the new crops
in fact it is still new year's for some folks: astronomers measure the length of the year from one vernal equinox to the next
but today's popular calendars set forth this equinox as the start of spring, a widely accepted if not official definition
indeed, the english weather historian richard inwards considered counting this date as the start of spring illogical
better, from his point of view, were either the medieval reckoning that spring began on feb. 22, or the farmer's calendar _ still followed by meteorologists _ that counts spring as beginning march 1
inwards, though, was calculating his seasons according to the weather in england, which is generally milder than many other areas
generally, spring is a time of gradually gentling weather as the increasing amounts of sunshine warm and land and people. but the promise can be a fickle one, suddenly overturned by a stubborn winter storm
spring, in other words, is where you find it. but at least the arrival of the equinox is a pleasant reminder that better times are on the way
a michigan man died friday from injuries suffered in a five-story plunge from the observation deck of the empire state building, authorities said
steven murkey, 24, of birmingham, mich., died at bellevue hospital about an hour after he was rescued from an 81st-story ledge at the 102-story building, said robert frazier, night supervisor at the hospital. murkey jumped from the 86th floor
emergency medical services capt. don rothschild said an ems crew responded to a call thursday night and pulled the man inside from a window
officer paul pisano said two people at the observatory saw the man jump, but they left before police could question them
rothschild said the man apparently climbed over a fence around the observation deck, a popular tourist attraction. there have been more than 30 suicides at the skyscraper, the world's tallest when it opened in 1931. reporting troop movement along border. picks up 9th graf pvs, `reporters flown...</note>
a military official said honduran troops were moving along the rugged frontier today and warplanes were on standby to oust nicaraguan soldiers
on thursday, honduran warplanes fired bombs and rockets at nicaraguan army targets along the border. the nicaraguan foreign ministry blamed washington and delivered a formal protest to the united states
there were conflicting reports about the raids
reagan administration officials said a sandinista army helicopter in nicaragua was destroyed, but nicaragua denied that
honduras said its air force fired rockets only inside its own territory
the united states deployed 3,200 u.s. troops after reported incursions into honduras by nicaraguan soldiers pursuing contra rebels. they included 700 paratroopers from the 82nd airborne division of fort bragg, n.c., who dropped into honduras today from eight aircraft, said pentagon spokeswoman capt. nancy laluntas
a high-ranking honduran military official said honduran troops had orders to expel the ``invading troops'' from nicaragua and that warplanes were on standby
the official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said an estimated 1,000 sandinistas were reported today on the honduran side of border at san andres de bocay. the nicaraguan side is the site of sandinista military headquarters in northern nicaragua
the official said two infantry batallions of 1,600 to 2,000 soldiers were moving into the region from a base at juticalpa, about 90 miles to the west. he said warplanes were on call from the tamara base just north of the capital
on thursday, honduran military spokesman manuel suarez said the honduran air force launched air raids on the honduran side of the frontier at san andres de bocay
reporters flown to san andres de bocay saw two unidentified jet planes roar in from honduras just after noon and drop at least five bombs near the border
in a telephone interview, suarez said honduras rockets destroyed a nicaraguan helicopter on a dirt landing strip inside honduras
suarez did not identify the type of helicopter destroyed
he said nicaraguan forces launched a sam-7 rocket at the honduran jets but the missile missed its target and the hondurans fired retaliatory rockets
in washington, sources who spoke on condition of anonymity said one soviet-made helicopter was damaged on the ground in nicaragua. the soviet union has been supplying the sandinistas with military hardware
in managua, the defense ministry denied that any of its fleet of more than 40 military helicopters had been destroyed
reagan administration officials say nicaraguan troops penetrated honduran territory in pursuit of the contras late tuesday
president daniel ortega of nicaragua has neither confirmed nor denied that, but he said nicaragua would continue its contra offensive in the border region, which began march 8
when he heard of the honduran attack, ortega abruptly left a meeting with representatives of opposition parties in managua. foreign minister miguel d'escoto said ortega had sent a diplomtic note to secretary of state george p. shultz to formally protest the raid
earlier, ortega said his army was ``ready to combat and liquidate the famous forces of the 82nd airborne division.''
lt. col. javier carrion, deputy chief of the sandinista army's general staff, said the sandinistas had pushed 1,800 rebels back into honduras. the sandinista forces totaled 4,500 troops, he said
the nicaraguan government had said 6,000 contras have been operating within its borders nationwide. carrion said the offensive caught the rebels ``totally by surprise.''
charles barclay, press officer for the u.s. embassy in tegucigalpa, said the deployment of american troops to palmerola air force base, about 50 miles northwest of tegucigalpa, was continuing today
two battalions from the 82nd airborne division of fort bragg, n.c., and two battalions from the 7th light infantry division of fort ord, calif., were combined into a task force of roughly 3,000 troops
it was the the most dramatic show of u.s. force since the contras began fighting in nicaragua and it came in response to a request for help from president jose azcona hoyo of honduras
in washington, the defense department said nine helicopter gunships were flown in for the u.s. exercise
palmerola air base is about 125 miles west of the area where reagan administration officials say the hostilities were taking place
maj. gen. carl w. stiner, commander of the 82nd airborne, said he knew of no plan to have u.s. troops enter into fighting between sandinistas and contras
a colt revolver that its owner claims was stolen from the bullet-ridden body of legendary mexican revolutionary francisco ``pancho'' villa goes on the auction block this weekend
the true tale of the ivory-handled revolver is a mystery, and only villa would know for certain whether it is the gun he was wearing on his left hip when assassins ambushed him in 1923
a new mexico man who has owned the gun for 20 years says he's certain it belonged to villa, was stolen from his body by one of his killers and possibly used to fire a final shot into villa's head
but oscare torres, assistant director of the cultural relations branch of the office of foreign relations in mexico city, said mexican officials do not believe the revolver is authentic
another who doubts the collector's story is apolinar frias, chief guide for the historical museum of the revolution in chihuahua, which houses mexico's major villa exhibits
on saturday, bidders will decide. the owner said he believes the gun will fetch more than $25,000
the gun is the centerpiece of a two-day western memorabilia auction at the texas ranger museum that features hundreds of items, ranging from old books and paintings to indian artifacts
the single-action revolver has a symbol of mexico _ an eagle clasping a serpent in its beak _ engraved on its left grip
villa, driving with several companions, was ambushed july 20, 1923, by eight gunmen in the state of chihuahua, where the former revolutionary general settled after ending his marauding military career
negotiators trying to work out a settlement in the afghanistan war were reportedly under new pressure to reach an agreement friday after a statement released by the soviet foreign ministry
the talks recessed for the weekend, and u.n. officials said they would resume monday
an afghan rebel leader said the soviet union was secretly trying to contact the resistance to negotiate an agreement
in moscow, foreign ministry spokesman vadim p. perfiliev said if a settlement proved impossible in geneva, moscow's withdrawal of its troops from afghanistan ``will be performed differently'' from terms agreed to this month
those terms state that the 115,000 red army troops would be out of afghanistan in a nine-month span and that half would leave in the first three months. the troops intervened in december 1979
a source close to the geneva talks, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the statement was expected to add momentum to the u.n.-mediated negotiations
a pakistani source said the soviet statement seemed designed to pressure pakistan into modifying its demand that a settlement be linked to the formation of a new government in afghanistan to oversee a settlement
pakistan represents the guerrillas in the talks
in peshawar, pakistan, gulbaddin hekmatyar, the new chairman of the afghan resistance, said the soviets were trying secretly to contact the insurgents
the russians are willing to (talk) but secretly. they are trying for it but secretly, not openly,'' hekmatyar said
hekmatyar also said that only an agreement with the resistance would guarantee the red army's safe passage out of afghanistan
the guerrillas do not recognize kabul's soviet-backed government and have said the u.n. talks are useless because they don't directly involve them and the soviets
the russians have to realize the fact that without an agreement with the mujahedeen it is not possible for the afghan crisis to be solved,'' said hekmatyar
he said the guerrillas would stop fighting if the soviet troops withdraw unconditionally and abandon attempts to preserve the communists' power
we will give them safe passage to leave afghanistan ... if they take the government they brought by their forces along with them,'' hekmatyar said. ``we will open the gates of afghanistan for them to leave.''
if not, he said, the guerrillas will increase attacks on soviet bases and concentrate on their expected withdrawal route through northern afghanistan. funerals. pick up 4th graf pvs: `a press...' edits thereafter to conform and trim. ^by edith m. lederer</note>
young roman catholics bent on revenge for a bloody attack on an ira funeral threw gasoline bombs at the homes of protestants, hijacked cars and attacked police into the early hours today
police fired plastic bullets to disperse the rioters. the violence died out before dawn, but some belfast roads remained blocked today by burned out vehicles
later today, several hundred mourners gathered at a requiem mass for thomas mcerlean, 20. he was killed wednesday at milltown cemetery when youths chased the protestant attacker, who fled still firing and throwing hand grenades. the crowd cornered and beat the man, now in police custody
meanwhile, the british broadcasting corp. reported that a banned protestant guerrilla group, the ulster freedom fighters, claimed reponsibility for killing another catholic, charles mcgrillen, 25. mcgrillen, also buried today, was gunned down at a supermarket on tuesday
a press officer at belfast police headquarters said local people in west belfast chased away catholic youths after they threw gasoline bombs at the homes of elderly protestants
ignoring pleas to stay calm, other young men set fire to vehicles and threw gasoline bombs at security forces in sporadic incidents. the violence affected catholic areas of west and north belfast, parts of londonderry, northern ireland's second largest city, and newry, a mainly catholic town in the south of the province
nine policemen and one civilian were slightly hurt thursday from rock and bottle-throwing at a st. patrick's day parade in rasharkin, about 35 miles north of belfast, and six people were arrested. in belfast, police said three people were arrested for possessing gasoline bombs
tension remained high following wednesday's attack by a protestant gunman on the funeral of three ira guerrillas. the attack left three dead and 68 injured
the three guerrillas were shot and killed by british security forces in gibraltar march 6 as they allegedly prepared to plant a car bomb. they were unarmed
a fourth ira guerrilla, not involved in the gibraltar case, was buried thursday without incident
the outlawed irish republican army is fighting to end british rule in protestant-dominated northern ireland and unite the province with the irish republic, which is predominantly roman catholic
police stayed at a distance from the funerals wednesday and thursday following an assurance from catholic churchmen that the ira would not stage armed paramilitary displays, which are illegal
although the two men whose funerals were today were both catholic, neither was publicly linked to the ira
the recent attacks prompted fears that northern ireland's sectarian turmoil, which has lasted nearly two decades and claimed about 2,500 lives, could escalate again
at a st. patrick's day rally, gerry adams, president of the ira's legal political wing, sinn fein, appealed to about 5,000 mainly young catholics not to riot
stay calm,'' adams said as a british army helicopter hovered overhead and black smoke rose in the distance from a burning vehicle. ``let's not add to the burdens people in this area and other nationalist areas have to deal with.''
police are holding two men in connection with the attack. michael stone, a protestant, who allegedly threw grenades and fired at the mourners, remained under armed guard in a belfast hospital. the second man has not been named
northern ireland's main protestant paramilitary groups denied involvement in the attack
a man who commanded a pit bull to attack trees was ordered to perform 40 hours of community service work planting or pruning trees
gerald e. huber jr., 20, will also have to pay for the replacement of any of the 13 damaged trees if they die, according to the order thursday in lancaster county court. restitution could be as high as $1,545
huber pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor charge of criminal mischief. police said on july 6 and july 8, huber ``by verbal commands and hand signals'' caused a 14-month-old dog named davey to attack the trees
why would you do something like that?'' judge michael j. perezous asked
i don't know. i guess showing off,'' the defendant replied
huber also was placed on probation for two years
defense counsel roy d. shirk said that huber told him he had been drinking when he ordered the dog to attack the trees
disagreement over a 1907 border treaty stalled talks friday between laos and thailand to resolve a frontier conflict that has claimed hundreds of lives
thailand's ambassador to laos, niran panupong, said both sides have different interpretations of the treaty between his country and what was then french-ruled laos
in addition, thongsi intapon, a laotian official of the prime minister's office, said laos first wanted to define the role and duties of a joint border committee proposed by the thais before such a body is formed
if we commit ourselves to that committee now, we will find ourselves arguing in the jungles,'' thongsi told reporters accompanying the 15-member thai delegation to the talks
the thais want an agreement defining the location of the border in the disputed wedge of hills between thailand's northern phitsanulok province and laos' sayaboury province
top thai army officials have said 147 thai soldiers and 402 laotian troops died before the two sides began a truce and pledged to enter into peace talks feb. 19
the thais say they will take the dispute to the world court if a bilateral agreement is not reached. but thongsi said such a move would be ``a last resort and not necessary.''
he said the prime ministers of both countries want a speedy agreement but added the talks could take ``quite a while'' if the atmosphere at friday's meeting persisted
the 1,030-mile border is poorly defined, and a similar territorial dispute over three border villages led to battles in 1984
plo chief yasser arafat led about 1,000 mourners after friday in a funeral procession for his elder brother, a cairo businessman
mustafa arafat, 62, died of liver cancer thursday at the palestinian red crescent hospital in cairo, which is run by fat'hy arafat, another brother
yasser arafat, 57, flew to cairo for the funeral from the palestine liberation organization headquarters in tunisia. officials he met afterward with foreign minister esmat abdel-meguid about palestinian unrest in the israeli-occupied territories and efforts for middle east peace
hundreds of uniformed police and plainclothes security men guarded the mosque in suburban nasr city and the 500-yard procession route
the coffin, shoulder-carried by members of the palestinian red crescent society in white and blue uniforms, was draped in the red, black, white and green palestinian flag. the red crescent is the moslem equivalent of the red cross society
yasser arafat, wearing his customary khaki fatigues and black and white checkered headdress, shook shook hands with mourners who offered condolences outside the mosque. the funeral service coincided with the weekly moslem midday prayers
president hosni mubarak was in sinai with sheik zayed bin sultan al-nahyan, the visiting president of the united arab emirates, and delegated former prime minister aly lutfy to represent him at the funeral
also among the mourners were prime minister atef sedki, other cabinet members and senior government officials, and leaders of opposition parties
mustafa arafat was among the first to join his brother's fatah guerrilla group, the largest of eight factions in the plo, nearly 25 years ago
the plo chairman is known to have two living brothers _ fat'hy, the hospital director, and gamal, who represents the plo in north yemen _ and a sister in cairo who is known by the code-name um al-mumeneen, ``mother of the faithful.''
police have charged the owner of two dogs with criminally negligent homicide after the dogs chased a bicyclist who fell and died
candelario guerrero, 45, was released from the williamson county jail on thursday after posting $1,500 bond on the misdemeanor charge, which carries penalties of up to a year in jail and a $2,000 fine
donald carlyle westbrook, 41, of austin, who rode his bicycle 30 to 40 miles each day, died from head injuries, according to police officer bryan leath
westbrook was riding near guerrero's business tuesday when two dogs started to chase him, according to the police report. as he sped up to flee the dogs, westbrook looked back, lost control of his bicycle and flipped over the handlebars, the report said
he died wednesday. his heart was transplanted into an austin woman thursday morning, and one of his kidneys was transplanted into another patient
the dogs, police said, were used to guard guerrero's automotive repair business. guerrero was at the business when the dogs got out through an open gate, leath said
guerrero could not be reached for comment friday. the telephone at his business was disconnected; there was no residential listing for him in round rock
police chief wesley wolff said the dogs were confiscated and will probably be destroyed. one is a 1-year-old doberman; the second is a 2-year-old chow mix, according to police
here is a summary of the latest developments in the sandinista-contra fighting along the honduran-nicaraguan border and repercussions from the united states' deployment of troops in honduras:
the white house denied nicaraguan charges that the united states was behind a honduran bombing raid on the nicaraguan border. reagan administration spokesman marlin fitzwater said: ``we haven't asked them (the hondurans) or instructed them to do anything. we have offered our support and we have sent our forces there in defense of that.''
defense secretary frank carlucci said friday that 3,200 soldiers being sent to honduras were there only for ``moral support'' and that they would be kept away from combat during their 10-day training exercise
the pentagon said 700 paratroopers from the 82nd airborne division of fort bragg, n.c., dropped into honduras on friday from eight aircraft, and the deployment would be completed by tonight
the foreign ministry blamed the united states for a honduran attack on sandinista army targets and formally protested to washington. a spokesman said such cross-border air raids could lead to war between the united states and nicaragua
sandinista officers said two bombs fell in nicaragua and a third landed across the narrow coco river in honduran territory on thursday afternoon. reporters taken to the area by a sandinista official saw at least five bombs fall, but it was impossible to say which side of the border they landed on
newspapers called on nicaraguans to maintain a combat alert in case u.s. troops invaded from honduras, where 3,200 american troops are being deployed
nicaragua requested an emergency meeting of the united nations' security council this afternoon to consider the situation
a military official said honduran troops were moving along the rugged frontier friday and warplanes were on standby to oust nicaraguan soldiers, a day after honduran warplanes fired bombs and rockets at nicaraguan army targets along the border. honduras said its air force fired rockets only inside its own territory
the high-ranking military official said honduran troops had orders to expel the ``invading troops'' from nicaragua. he said an estimated 1,000 sandinistas were reported friday on the honduran side of border at san andres de bocay. the nicaraguan side is the site of sandinista military headquarters in northern nicaragua
scores of people were arrested friday as demonstrators blocked federal buildings in boston and san francisco and slowed rush-hour traffic in chicago's loop in protests against the movement of troops to honduras. more than 100 people were arrested in san francisco, up to 60 in chicago and one in boston on the second day of protests, police said
in miami, contra leaders said cease-fire talks scheduled monday with the government were off unless the sandinistas left honduras
tricycle, unicycle, skateboard, sled and bicycle riders beware: without a driver's license, you could get a ticket, and your vehicle could be seized
the ordinance intended to put the brakes on reckless riders has let loose a storm of protest, and one woman moved so her 13-year-old son could ride his bicycle without fear of arrest
the regulation, passed unanimously by aldermen feb. 15, requires bicyclists to have a driver's license or be supervised by someone who does. it also applies to riders of unicycles, tricycles, all-terrain vehicles, skateboards, minibikes, wagons, sleds, scooters and go-carts
town officials said the law was desperately needed to curtail reckless attitudes among bike riders, especially young ones, some of whom played ``chicken'' with cars
violation of the law is a misdemeanor
the children don't have any freedom,'' said mable lee, who moved two weeks ago to an area northwest of town so her son, tom, could ride his bike again. ``what have they got to do? there's nothing for 'em to do.''
mayor will cathey said something had to be done to protect both drivers and bicyclists. he added that the ordinance was passed after three advertised public hearings, which nobody attended
after the ox got gored, then they (protesters) came down,'' he said. ``i've received a lot of support from my constituents over the town taking action about these bicycles, a tremendous amount of support.''
rosman, population 515, has no police force. the transylvania county sheriff's department confiscated three bikes shortly after the law was passed but later released them, said jim stroup, chief investigator for the department
he said the sheriff's office is waiting to hear from the state attorney general's office about whether the law is constitutional before it actively enforces the ordinance
under the ordinance, youthful violators will be referred to county youth counselor pat roach. ``this is something we will try to settle without going to court,'' she said. ``that's true with any kind of complaint about a child.'' update with testimony resuming today; picks up 10th graf, `during nearly...'</note>
gov. evan mecham, his honesty challenged on the witness stand, shouted he's ``tired of this kind of baloney,'' but acknowledged ordering arizona's top lawman not to cooperate in an investigation of an alleged death threat
the first-term republican governor got into more than one shouting match with prosecutor paul eckstein during his second day of testimony at his impeachment trial thursday, as eckstein sought to damage mecham's credibility
mecham is accused of trying to thwart an investigation of the death threat allegedly made by one of his staffers against a top aide who was scheduled to testify before a grand jury investigating the governor's campaign finances
he returned to the stand today, and was expected to complete his testimony on the accusation, the first of three major charges against him. he also is accused of concealing a $350,000 campaign loan and of misusing $80,000 from a state fund by loaning it to his auto dealership
at least one other witness was expected to be recalled to the stand _ state official peggy griffith, who reported the alleged death threat nov. 13. the last scheduled witness was mecham's own defense attorney, fred craft, who was present at a key meeting in connection with the obstruction claim
mecham, fighting for his political life, insisted thursday he was kept in the dark about the details of the death threat made by a former state official, lee watkins. when he did hear about it, he said he didn't consider it serious
two somewhat excitable people had a verbal exchange and somewhere along the line there were those who determined they would make something out of it,'' he said. ``it's a total manufactured thing.''
mecham acknowledged, however, that he ordered ralph milstead, the state department of public safety director, not to cooperate with an attorney general's investigation of the alleged threat
i said, `tell them we've looked into it and there's nothing to it,''' he said
mecham said today he wishes he had fired milstead, and that if he had, ``we wouldn't be sitting in this body in this action today... i have highly repented of that.''
during nearly three weeks of testimony, witnesses quoted watkins as saying that mecham's former top aide, donna carlson, might ``go on a long boat ride'' if she testified before the grand jury. watkins has denied the charge
it would require a two-thirds vote of the 30-member state senate to remove mecham from office. they could then take another vote on barring him from any future state office
in addition to the impeachment trial, the first of a u.s. governor in six decades, mecham faces a criminal trial april 21 on felony charges that he concealed the $350,000 loan. he also faces a recall election may 17
attorney general bob corbin confirmed thursday his office also is looking into a $150,000 personal loan taken by mecham in december to pay off the unreported campaign loan
in a series of testy exchanges under cross-examination by eckstein thursday, mecham turned combative and at one point declared, ``i am kind of tired of this kind of baloney!''
during six hours on the stand, the governor pleaded a faulty memory for details but said he knew one thing _ he had never been accused of anything worse than a traffic ticket before the current proceedings
eckstein then produced copies of two lawsuits in which mecham was accused of fraud in business deals
the governor bristled, saying that was not the same thing, and attempted a lengthy explanation that became a shouting match as the attorney tried to stop him
this has to be told. you're trying to impugn my honesty!'' mecham said
eckstein interrupted, saying,``i'll ask the questions.''
i'll respond as i see fit,'' snapped mecham. ``i've earned the right to respond!''
at one point mecham said, ``hopefully, i will be back on the ninth floor (the governor's office) in the near future,'' and as he left the senate building he flashed a thumbs-up sign to reporters and well-wishers
tape-recorded police transmissions indicate three officers who stood outside an apartment while a 12-year-old girl was raped didn't heed a supervisor's order to kick in a door
the recording was played thursday during a disciplinary hearing for officer james horka. horka is accused of waiting for the building's landlord to arrive with a key instead of breaking down the door to rescue the girl
the tape indicates horka arrived outside the apartment at 4:39 a.m. on dec. 20 and said over the radio two minutes later, ``we're going to the back door; supposedly it's a home invasion.''
the order to kick down the door came two minutes after horka told his superiors the girl's mother was ``worried for the welfare of her 12-year-old daughter,'' according to the tape
horka's supervisor, sgt. ernest targonski, said, ``...you've got to get in there somehow, so long as she states that the man is in there. we've got to push the door in; push the door in.''
but horka and two other police officers waited almost a half-hour before entering the home, the tape indicates
the girl was rescued when officer peter miller arrived at the scene and entered the apartment through an open back door
hearings for officers kevin beasley and daniel surufka, who arrived with horka and were under his supervision, are to begin march 28
former police chief james shutoski, who retired during the controversy, recommended firing the three officers
horka expressed confusion on the tape. he said of the mother, ``this girl is freaking out.'' when asked by the dispatcher whether the incident was a rape, he replied, ``i don't know; i don't know what this is right now.''
horka's attorney thomas tyrell says the tape proves horka's contention that he decided to wait for a key because he did not know if the intruder had a weapon and would harm the girl or her 10-year-old brother if he heard police breaking in
benjamin valentine, 19, of chicago, has been charged in the assault
the new gene autry western heritage museum in los angeles has purchased an 87-piece western art collection worth an estimated $8.7 million
the collection, which had been on permanent loan to joslyn art museum since 1967, contains works by 37 artists, including frederic remington, charles m. russell, albert bierstadt and george catlin
the autry museum obtained the collection by a sealed bid to the enron art foundation at enron corp. headquarters in houston. an enron spokesman declined to disclose the price or number of bidders. a statement by the autry museum also did not give the price
the collection, assembled from the western art holdings of knoedler galleries in new york city, was purchased for an undisclosed sum in 1967 by the northern natural gas co., an enron corp. predecessor
last may, the enron art foundation offered the collection, along with a collection of 113 works by alfred jacob miller for $10.8 million
joslyn said it would buy the miller collection for $4.4 million, but decided not to buy the western collection. the museum has another western collection, appraised at $14 million, that was donated by the enron foundation in november 1986
under the circumstances that the sale was inevitable, i am pleased that the material is coming to a museum,'' henry flood robert, joslyn's director, said thursday. ``it means the material will still be accessible to the public in the future.''
the autry museum, named after the cowboy movie actor who now owns the california angels baseball team, is being built by a charitable trust set up through the estate of the late ina mae autry, autry's wife
the museum is to open in october with 52,000 square feet of exhibit space on 13 acres in griffith park. it has a collection of 12,000 items, including autry's personal holdings
massachusetts gov. michael dukakis holds a slight edge in kansas democratic presidential caucuses on saturday based on an organization that even his rivals concede is strong
dukakis, jesse jackson and albert gore jr. all campaigned in kansas this week, trying to kindle enthusiasm among registered democrats and spur them to turn out at 117 caucuses. kansas, with only 39 national convention delegates, has been ignored until now
we've been organized in kansas for eight months,'' said state sen. paul feleciano, dukakis' state chairman. ``i feel very good heading into the caucuses. i think we'll get 20 to 24 of the 39 delegates still to be picked.''
state sen. joe norvell, a gore supporter, conceded dukakis' organizational lead in kansas, but said, ``i do believe that, with sen. gore's extensive campaign trip through the state, his efforts could minimize what i would consider an early lead for gov. dukakis.''
gore, lacking a big organization here, campaigned wednesday and thursday throughout the state. the tennessee senator won endorsements from state treasurer joan finney, the highest elected democratic state official, and a qualified endorsement from state chairman jim parrish
were it not for my promise to the democratic state committee early on ... to stay neutral until the 19th of march, i'd be making a public announcement for you,'' parrish told gore. ``i'm leaning very much in your favor.''
jackson has had a better organizational effort in kansas than has gore, but his supporters conceded recently they are not organized in enough counties to garner a majority of the kansas delegates
rep. jim slattery, who supports missouri rep. richard gephardt, said friday his candidate would do well in kansas, and he said michigan ``is a do-or-die state'' for gephardt. michigan's democratic caucuses will be held march 26
i always hate to make predictions that can be proven wrong in 48 hours, so i'll avoid doing that. i think they'll all get delegates. rep. dick gephardt and undecided will do well,'' slattery said
gore supporter norvell also predicted a large uncommitted vote saturday, saying he thinks kansas democrats still are making up their minds
i really do not see a front-runner in kansas,'' he said
democrats will caucus saturday afternoon and vote for delegates to the district conventions april 23 and the state convention may 14
illegal aliens are driving down wages and job conditions for low-income native americans and legal immigrants but also are indirectly enhancing job opportunities for some higher-skilled workers, congressional investigators say in a new report
hurt most by the tide of illegal workers sweeping border, farm and some metropolitan areas are native and legally documented immigrant crop pickers, janitors and food processing workers, the general accounting office says
wage and benefit increases won by largely legal mexican migrants and native black workers under union organizing campaigns in those industries in the 1970s have disappeared as they have been displaced by illegal immigrants working at often below-minimum wages, the gao said in a 70-page report
for example, janitors in downtown los angeles office buildings _ most of them black or legal hispanic immigrants _ had won wage and benefits reaching a peak of $12 an hour by 1983 under union contracts, according to the report
however, a group of aggressive non-union janitorial services hiring predominantly illegal immigrants have since wrested away the best building contracts, driving the union scale back down to $4 an hour and below
of 2,500 black janitors working under high-wage contracts in 1977, only 100 still enjoyed comparative wages by 1985, the gao said. the union still had 600 working members but 500 of them had suffered large pay cuts
citrus and tomato pickers in southern california _ many of them mexicans admitted under guest worker programs _ have seen their wages and benefits drop by 18 percent since 1975 because of the growing use of illegal immigrants by farm labor contractors, the gao said
however, the congressional investigators said it is impossible to measure what it called the ``net effects'' of the growing use of illegal aliens in other businesses, such as full-service restaurants and high-fashion shoe and garment manufacturing
the increased supply of illegal workers undoubtedly depressed wages for some natives or legal immigrants in those industries, too, the gao said
but, at the same time, by stimulating business, (they) also expanded employment opportunities and wages for other legal and native workers in complementary, usually skilled occupations,'' it said
as an example, it cited full-service restaurants that use illegal aliens as dishwashers and busboys. the associated labor savings allow low prices that lead to expanded sales, creating jobs for more higher-skilled and higher-paid chefs and waiters, the gao said
citing case studies in new york city and los angeles, the gao said illegal immigrants working at low wages by u.s. standards have meant the survival of small, specialized companies in the high-fashion women's footwear and garment industries
the studies quoted owners of those companies as saying they are under intense cost pressure from foreign producers and could not find americans or legal immigrants willing to work all day behind sewing machines or with the skills needed to produce high-fashion women's shoes
without a supply of illegal workers, the gao concluded, many of those businesses would close down or move their operations out of the country
the labor department strongly disagreed with the gao's conclusions, saying none of the studies it surveyed offered any concrete evidence of a positive effect from using illegal workers, except the comments from employers
in a formal reply to the report, the department also disputed gao's premise that legal workers won't take many of the low-wage jobs, particuarly in the shoe and garment industries
the fact is that large numbers of native and legal u.s. workers are in the same labor market as illegal workers,'' the labor department said. ``if wages were not depressed by illegal workers, even greater numbers of native and legal workers would be in that labor market.''
the study was requested by congress in 1985, when it was considering immigration reform legislation enacted a year later providing for government fines against employers who use illegal aliens
if successful, the gao said, those employer sanctions will force wages up for legal immigrants and natives, causing ``considerable stress'' financially for growers and some manufacturers
police on friday threatened strict action against organizers of a national strike set for monday, the anniversary of the 1960 sharpeville massacre
anti-apartheid organizations have called for a ``national day of protest'' to mark the anniversary and to protest the recent crackdown on major black opposition groups
the strike also had been intended to protest the scheduled execution friday of six blacks from sharpeville convicted of complicity in the 1984 mob killing of a black town councilor during anti-apartheid riots
on thursday, 15 hours before the hangings were to take place, a judge granted a one-month stay of execution to the ``sharpeville six.'' instead of a mass execution, one black man convicted in a separate murder case was hanged at pretoria central prison at dawn friday without fanfare or an overnight vigil
tsepo letsoara, 24, was convicted of killing a black woman in october 1985. there was no campaign to save him, and neither the government nor its opponents has contended that his crime had political overtones
police commanders announced that reinforcements would be deployed monday in the johannesburg area, where the strike is expected to be most widespread
calls for strikes are illegal under emergency regulations in effect since june 1986. but on other ``days of protests'' since then, hundreds of thousands of black workers and students have stayed home
we are planning all actions humanly possible to prevent persons from intimidating and preventing workers from being able to do a good day's work,'' said lt. pierre louw, a police spokesman
he said labor unions and other ``elements'' organizing the strike were under investigation
march 21 is observed annually by blacks as ``sharpeville day'' to mark the day in 1960 when 69 blacks were shot and killed by police in the township south of johannesburg while demonstrating against the pass laws. the laws restricting blacks' freedom of movement have since been repealed
anti-apartheid riots broke out in sharpeville and nearby townships in september 1984, starting a two-year period of nationwide unrest in which more than 2,000 blacks were killed. the councilor whose murder led to the ``sharpeville six'' trial was killed on the first day of those riots
the five black men and one woman gained their reprieve when pretoria supreme court justice willem human granted a one-month stay of execution after receiving evidence of perjury by a prosecution witness
the government said it ignored a massive international appeal for clemency, leaving the case in the hands of the judge
attorney prakash diar said friday the defense team had already begun preparing an application to reopen the trial and re-examine government witnesses
the six were convicted under the principle of ``common cause,'' which held them responsible for the september 1984 death of town councilor jacob dlamini because they were part of a crowd of 100 who stoned and burned him to death in sharpeville
president p.w. botha had rejected pleas from leaders of most western nations and from countries and organizations around the world to grant clemency. the government said human's decision ``proves the wisdom of the state president and his ministers in deciding not to intervene in the due process of law.''
two johannesburg newspapers reported friday that botha had granted clemency three weeks ago to a black policeman who had been sentenced to death for 1986 murder of a youth in mamelodi, a black township outside pretoria
a spokesman for justice department said botha had commuted constable george john sindane's death sentence to eight years in prison, and he was one of five people whose death sentences were commuted this year
soviet scientists are working around the clock to prepare the first launch of their space shuttle on an unmanned test flight expected by june, officials said friday
alexander i. dunayev, the head of the space agency glavkosmos, also said that the agency plans to use the actual shuttle, not a dummy, in the test flight and that more than one of the craft will be built
dunayev's comments at a news conference were the most detailed to date about the soviet shuttle. the session was called to discuss thursday's launch of an indian satellite by a soviet rocket
the soviets are believed to have been developing their own winged reusable spacecraft since at least 1982, but soviet officials did not confirm the project until december 1984 and have released little information about it
dunayev said the first flight of the shuttle was imminent
we are now working quite energetically on testing on land, on the surface, of the components. we are working literally round the clock,'' he said
he refused to specify when the launch will occur, saying only that it would be ``in the nearest future.''
it is very important that this flight be very thoroughly prepared so i would not get involved in some guesswork,'' dunayev said
however, another soviet space official, speaking privately, said the first flight would occur in the first half of this year. neither he nor dunayev would comment on when the first manned flight would occur
dunayev said soviet scientists were encountering difficulties daily in preparing the shuttle, but he did not provide details
western specialists on the soviet space program have said the flight would be unmanned and computerized. dunayev confirmed the flight would be totally automated because the soviet union believes pilotless tests are prudent
with the development of manned spacecraft, the soviet union prefers at the first stage automats,'' he said. ``and we believe that for the sake of security of human life what is required above all is to ensure that man survives.''
he went on to imply that u.s. space officials were not as concerned about astronauts' safety as the soviets were. seven astronauts were killed when the space shuttle challenger exploded in january 1986
we pursue the fundamental objective: whether man is alive or dead after the flight. on the basis of that we regard the fundamental differences between the soviet direction of development and the u.s. part of development,'' dunayev said
james oberg, an american specialist on the soviet space program, said in a telephone interview from his home in texas that the soviet shuttle may include a separable nose section from which the crew could escape in an emergency
soviet officials have said little about the size or other characteristics of the shuttle. but the soviet press has reported the shuttle will be lifted into orbit by the new energia rocket booster, which can carry up to 100 tons of payload, more than the u.s. shuttle
in its first test may 15, energia successfully carried aloft a payload, but the payload's own engines failed
alexei f. bogomolov, director of the soviet mission control center near moscow called medvezhyi ozero, said in an interview the shuttle will have on-board engines to orient the craft in space and maneuver it through the atmosphere toward a runway landing. the u.s. shuttle glides powerless to landings
the soviet space chief said the soviet union plans a fleet of shuttles
how many, it's difficult to say. it is clear that we will have more than one,'' he said
developer donald trump has a handshake agreement to buy the landmark plaza hotel for $450 million, the wall street journal reported friday
the plaza's owners have agreed on basic terms with trump and are expected to sign a binding contract next week, according to sources quoted in newspaper
a spokeswoman for trump and a spokesman at howard rubenstein associates, which represents trump, did not return telephone calls seeking confirmation friday
another unidentified source quoted by the journal said trump was the preferred bidder because it was believed he was most likely to restore the hotel's luster
the 81-year-old landmark hotel was acquired in january from the allegis corp. when robert m. bass of fort worth, texas, and the tokyo-based aoki corp. bought the westin hotels and resorts chain, an allegis subsidiary, for $1.53 billion. bass owns 71 percent of the plaza; aoki owns the rest. the journal said a bass spokesman declined comment
the hotel, which overlooks central park at fifth avenue, can be seen from trump tower on fifth avenue, which combines restaurants, shops and apartments
the plaza is expected to earn $22 million this year, which industry professionals quoted by the journal said is a meager return for the price trump is offering
i think anything over $350 million is high,'' stephen brenner, a new york hotel consultant, said
in 1907, the plaza opened as a permanent residency hotel and later became a commercial hotel. a few tenants from before world war ii are protected by rent control laws and pay $200 a month in rent
a couple accused of having sex on a transatlantic flight were charged with public indecency, and two men who began throwing food when a flight attendant intervened also have been charged, police said
but the couple, a doctor and his wife, a lawyer and part-time judge, say they were sleeping on american airlines flight 37 from munich, west germany, to san diego, and did nothing wrong
the four were arrested monday when the jet made an intermediate stop in chicago, according to police reports
but phillip matin, who was arrested with his wife, sharyn jo van tassell, denied the charges. ``this was the fantasy of a young girl that is completely uncorroborated,'' he told the sacramento (calif.) bee. ``it's ridiculous.''
police said most passengers apparently were asleep monday during the eight-hour atlantic crossing when a 13-year-old girl told her mother she believed the couple across the aisle was engaged in a sex act. the mother called an attendant, who notified a supervisor, said sgt. jerry thornton
the supervisor, barbara weiderman, told the captain of the problem, and he radioed police to be on standby at o'hare. at that point, two other passengers ``became abusive and belligerent'' and began throwing food and drinks at the flight attendants, according to the police report
when the plane landed, police arrested van tassell, 42, and matin, 52, of loomis, calif. both were charged with public indecency; matin was also charged with possession of a controlled substance after authorities found eight yellow pills in one of his bags
matin said they were valium and he couldn't prove they were prescription drugs because the bottle they came from was in his luggage
roger f. cline, 42, of placerville, calif., and stanley wells, 53, of cameron park, calif., were charged with disorderly conduct in connection with the food fight
all four missed the continuation of their flight to san diego, but paid the bonds set on their misdemeanor charges and were released pending april court appearances, police said
a government commission has declared poland's first sex education book unacceptable and banned it from schools, ending a six-month debate that made the text a best-seller on the black market
preparation for life in the family'' was introduced in high schools last fall to a storm of protest
one normally pro-government lay catholic newspaper called it ``a textbook for masturbation and defloration.'' another called it a ``sex manual for beginners.''
critics said it violated religious teachings and encouraged pre-marital sex
after two months of complaints, minister of national education henryk bednarski in november suspended the book's use in high schools
on friday, official newspapers announced that a special commission appointed by bednarski to evaluate the book now had banned it permanently
the controversy didn't hurt the text's popularity. the first printing of 500,000 copies sold out in state book stores and is available only at inflated prices on the black market, according to newspaper reports
the book was designed for use in a nationwide high school course on family life and sexual matters, which had been taught since 1973 without a text
many parents and clergy lined up against the book, but it was defended by such odd political bedfellows as writers for communist party papers and the underground publications of the banned solidarity trade union federation
the commission reviewing the book, including teachers, psychologists, doctors and other experts, held its final meeting thursday
according to the official pap news agency, the commission chairwoman concluded, ``we appreciate the necessity of giving youth sexual knowledge ... but we think that the book as a mandatory textbook is unacceptable.''
the chairwoman anna przeclawska, dean of warsaw university's pedagogics department, said experts found the book replete with mistakes about biological and psychological topics and filled with overly difficult language and ``inappropriate'' graphics
it presented a ``one-sided biological conception'' of sexual problems, omitting the need for friendship and love, she said
a roman catholic church weekly, niedziela, said explicit illustrations of sexual positions could lead to the ``arousal of children'' and undermine parental authority
the commission recommended that work proceed slowly on a new textbook, stressing that what is ``most important is the teacher who cannot be replaced by anything.''
a commentator on the popular youth-oriented television news broadcast, teleexpress, condemned the book ban and said young people will be ``doomed to barnyard knowledge or often unqualified teachers.''
the book's defenders argued that it presented the roman catholic view of opposing artificial contraception and abortions
they included the polish united workers party weekly polityka, which published letters from readers who complained that poland is sexually backward
one reader said there were cases in which sales clerks deliberately punched holes in condoms ``because this is the kind of `morality' we have in poland.''
daniel passent, a polityka columnist, accused the roman catholic majority of attempting to force its views on the non-catholic minority
several writers in clandestine weeklies published by solidarity also objected to the campaign against the book, which in turn prompted outraged responses from pro-union priests and activists
a commentary in november in the most widely circulated solidarity underground weekly, tygodnik mazowsze, said sexual knowledge among young poles was ``close to medieval.''
the book's backers argued the textbook was needed because many youths lack information about sex and birth control
estimates of the number of abortions per year range as high as 800,000. according to official statistics, every sixth woman who gets married under the age of 20 is already pregnant
a baby with a fatal birth defect who was maintained on a respirator for a week to preserve his organs for transplant clung to life friday without life support, officials said
the boy, born with most of his brain and skull missing, was taken off the respirator thursday at loma linda university medical center after he failed to show signs of brain death the hospital requires before taking organs for transplant
baby d continues to breathe on his own, and is being kept comfortable,'' said spokeswoman anita rockwell
meanwhile, another infant with the same condition being kept alive in the loma linda organ donor program, began to show signs of impending brain death friday
babies with the defect called anencephaly usually die within hours or days of being taken off life-support systems, ms. rockwell said
loma linda developed the first medical guidelines in the united states for using life-support equipment to preserve anencephalics' hearts and other organs for transplant. if the babies are allowed to die naturally, their organs deteriorate to the point of being unsuitable for transplant
the girl is the fifth anencephalic infant delivered into loma linda's donor program. the first was stillborn, and the second met criteria for brain death, but a suitable recipient for his organs couldn't be found before the body parts deteriorated
the other two never met the hospital's criteria
under the guidelines, infants are placed on life-support systems for seven days. if doctors determine an infant is brain dead within that time, the hospital will alert organ procurement agencies nationwide and a search for a suitable recipient will begin
the hospital's criteria for brain death require that an infant be in a coma and unable to breathe on his or her own and show an absence of eye reflexes, ms. rockwell said
the life-support system helps prevent the infant's heart, liver and other vital organs from deteriorating until doctors have determined the baby is brain dead
the hospital's procedure was devised to address ethical questions surrounding the use of doomed anencephalics as organ donors
if an infant is not declared brain dead within seven days, he or she is taken off the respirator and allowed to die naturally without further consideration as a donor
record low precipitation in parts of the west last month has further reduced an already low water supply, the agriculture department said friday
we were hoping that precipitation levels would increase in february and help ease the drought in sections of california, nevada, montana, idaho, oregon, washington and wyoming,'' said wilson scaling, chief of the department's soil conservation service. ``instead, the situation has worsened.''
the western water outlook is based on surveys by scs and the commerce department's national weather service. western states depend on snowmelt for about 75 percent of their water
scaling said some areas are not affected by the dry conditions, including ``very good'' prospects in arizona, new mexico and the lower part of colorado
these areas have had three wet winters in a row,'' he said. ``the soils are wet and there has been excellent carryover from previous years.'' lpga event</head> play; picks up 7th graf, `the petition...'; a version on sports wires.</note>
a golfer who failed to qualify for a tournament after interrupting her play to save a drowning child will be allowed to enter the tournament through an unprecendented exemption, the lpga announced today
commissioner john d. laupheimer called mary bea porter's revival of the stricken child a once-in-a-decade occurence that warrants such an exception to the ladies pro golfing rules
mary bea porter, 38, had returned to the phoenix golf course after the rescue earlier this week but finished three strokes short of qualifying for the standard register turquoise classic tournament next week in phoenix
she had not been told of laupheimer's decision when he made the announcement today during the lpga tucson open that began play thursday, when ms. porter shot a 79 in comparison with the 9-under-par 63 fired by the first-round leader, british rookie laura davies
players had petitioned laupheimer to let ms. porter to play despite having failed to qualify. laupheimer said he took their sentiments into account but had decided to find some way to recognize her ``exemplary heroism.''
laupheimer said he knew of no other instance in which a golfer who failed in a qualifying round had been allowed to play in an lpga tournament. he said he was concerned about setting a precedent in modifying the rules, but added, ``i can't think of anything else in golf that has captured the hearts of not only the golfing community but the public at large.''
the petition originated with bonnie lauer, president of the lpga player council
ms. porter was lining up her shot on the 13th fairway wednesday when she saw 3-year-old jonathon smucker face down in a swimming pool in a yard bordering the moon valley country club golf course in phoenix
she jumped the fence to help the boy's father, who had pulled the boy out, and gave mouth-to-mouth resuscitation. a spokesman for the phoenix fire department said she saved the boy's life
i knew i had to do something ... so i threw him on the ground, reached in and cleaned out his mouth, moved his tongue to the side and blew,'' she said
the boy was crying in her arms when paramedics arrived, ms. porter said
ms. porter has won $50,000 in 15 years on the ladies pro golf tour
very low blood cholesterol increases the risk of one form of stroke, even though it decreases the overall risk of all forms of stroke, researchers said friday
a six-year study of 350,000 men showed that those with cholesterol levels below 160 were three times as likely as others to have a so-called hemorrhagic stroke, in which a blood vessel bursts and the subsequent bleeding damages parts of the brain
the study's principal author, dr. hiroyasu iso of the university of minnesota and the university of tsukuba in tsukuba city, japan, said his findings do not suggest any change in public health efforts to get americans to lower their blood cholesterol levels
public efforts to lower cholesterol should continue, and our efforts to understand the etiology (cause) of stroke should increase,'' iso said in presenting his results at a meeting of the american heart association
hemorrhagic strokes are less common than strokes caused by clots, which account for 70 percent to 80 percent of all strokes
the increased risk of hemorrhagic stroke was observed only in men with high blood pressure, but there might be a smaller increase in risk in people with normal blood pressure, iso said. his study couldn't determine that, he said
the increased risk occurred in men with blood cholesterol levels below 160 milligrams. only 6 percent of the men he studies had cholesterol levels that low, he said. the mean blood cholesterol level in the subjects was 211 milligrams
cholesterol levels below 200 milligrams are associated with a low level of coronary heart disease
levels over 240 milligrams double the risk. twenty percent to 25 percent of americans have cholesterol levels in this range, according to the heart association
in japan, low levels of cholesterol are more common, and hemorrhagic strokes are more common, too, iso said
dr. william kannel of the framingham heart study in massachusetts said that study shows a similar risk associated with low cholesterol, as does the honolulu heart study directed by dr. dwayne reed of the national heart, lung and blood institute
those researchers and others said, however, that the risk associated with very low cholesterol is outweighed by the benefits
nothing confers immortality,'' said kannel. ``you're always dealing with tradeoffs.'' he emphasized that coronary heart disease, with its strong link to elevated cholesterol, is the chief form of heart disease. ``given that, i'd say get your cholesterol as low as you can,'' he said
if you look at total stroke,'' said dr. lewis kuller of the university of pittsburgh, ``there's no question _ the lower the cholesterol, the better.''
the soviet union announced friday it will borrow political and economic reforms from yugoslavia and reiterated that it won't impose its policies on other communist nations
soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev pledged as he ended a trip to yugoslavia that eastern european countries are free to follow ``any paths to socialism'' without soviet interference
this echoed speeches gorbachev made twice last year but it marked the first time he put such a pledge into a formal document
the declaration, also signed by yugoslav president lazar mojsov, brings the soviet union one step closer to abandoning, at least on paper, the so-called brezhnev doctrine that tolerates no alternative to moscow's brand of communism
gorbachev returned to moscow on friday after a five-day visit to yugoslavia that gave him a first-hand look at the country's decentralized economy and at its ethnic divisions similar to those the kremlin confronts at home
the trip, one of his longest to a foreign country, included detailed talks with communist leaders, factory visits in belgrade and a stroll friday through the medieval buildings and sun-drenched narrow streets of dubrovnik
proceeding from the conviction that no one has a monopoly over the truth, the two sides declare that they have no pretensions of imposing their concept of social development on anyone,'' the declaration said
for the first time, too, the soviet union embraced the concept of socialist self-management that had been developed by yugoslav leader josip broz tito after he broke with moscow in 1948
the two sides consider the development of socialist self-management, in keeping with the specificities of each country, to be of the highest importance,'' the declaration said
it ensures the genuine authority of the people and the freedom of the individual and is a dependable guarantee against any administrative-bureaucratic distortion of socialism,'' the declaration said
friday's document replaces agreements reached by both countries in 1955 and 1956, when then soviet leader nikita khrushchev signaled that the kremlin might tolerate alternative ways to communism
but in 1956 workers unrests were crushed in poland and soviet tanks quashed revolt in budapest
soviet historians have hinted in past months that moscow may be willing to review its assessment of czechoslovakia's attempt in 1968 to develop an alternative brand of communism
however, the present prague communist leadership took power after the reforms were crushed by a soviet-led warsaw pact invasion
therefore any reassessment of ``prague spring'' would have to be sensitive to those currently in power
friday's declaration indicates moscow wants to borrow some economic and political practices from yugoslavia, whose position between east and west has enhanced its international standing and standard of living over the past four decades
meat, dairy and fresh produce, often in short supply for soviets, are readily available to yugoslavs who also have access to western luxury items, like the sony walkman which are still a coveted prize for most soviets
but triple-digit inflation has cut yugoslavs' standard of living by at least a third since 1980, placing many consumer items out of reach of workers earning an average wage of $180 a month
a $20 billion debt has built up, and many yugoslavs expect times to get even harder after the international monetary fund completes negotiations this spring on how to reschedule debt payments
gorbachev indicated tuesday he also would not favor too much decentralization of his economy, telling workers at the belgrade factory that ``we have to maintain a regulatory role in order not to make mistakes.''
friday's document said the soviets and yugoslavs will work to develop political and personal contacts
the reagan administration is assured that nuclear warheads will not be placed on chinese intermediate-range missiles sold to saudi arabia, but the sale is still a ``disturbing regional trend,'' the state department said friday
the department confirmed that saudi arabia had acquired chinese missiles with a range of 2,200 miles _ capable of hitting all areas of the middle east, including israel
with iran and iraq engaged in a so-called ``war of the cities'' _ the lobbing of missiles against major population centers _ the introduction of more rockets into the region has raised concerns in washington, spokesmen said
it is another part of a disturbing regional trend in surface-to-surface missile proliferation,'' said rudolph boone, a state department press officer. ``the sum total of the proliferation is a degradation of the security of all states in the region.''
the missiles were described as chinese css-2 rockets, similar to those used in china's limited space program in the early 1970s and capable of being outfitted with nuclear warheads
such a system is not in the interests of peace and stability in the region,'' boone said
secretary of state george p. shultz expressed u.s. concern about the sales when he talked last week with chinese foreign minister wu xueqian, spokesman charles e. redman said
wu and other chinese officials since then have told the united states ``categorically that it will not export nuclear weapons to any government. we accept these assurances,'' redman said
saudi arabia as well ``has assured us at the very highest level that saudi arabia does not have nor does it intend to acquire any nuclear capability,'' redman said
he said the united states was in close touch with saudi arabia on the issue, as well as with other governments in the region, presumably israel
the united states and six other major industrialized democracies have agreed not to export ballistic and cruise missiles capable of carrying payloads of 1,100 pounds more than 187 miles
we've been actively engaged in an effort to get other countries to join that regime,'' redman said. ``all nations were invited to join. in the case of the chinese we have approached them specifically on several occasions about discussing it, but we really haven't had any response to that invitation.''
according to other officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity, saudi arabia sought the chinese missiles after the u.s. congress blocked the sale of 48 f-15 jet fighters to the saudis. congress agreed late last year to permit the sale of 24 f-15s _ enough to keep saudi air strength at current levels
the administration has said saudi arabia needs sophisticated weapons for defense against a possible widening of the 7-year-old iran-iraq war
nearly 300 people demonstrating against sending u.s. troops to honduras were arrested today after blocking federal buildings in chicago, boston and in san francisco, where baton-wielding police officers waded into the crowd
more than 200 people were arrested in san francisco, up to 60 in chicago and one in boston on the second day of protests, police said. twelve men and 12 women were arrested for blocking traffic in front of the white house
about 50 protesters were arrested in the three cities thursday, the day 3,200 troops were sent to honduras in what the white house called a ``measured response'' to nicaraguan troops crossing the border into honduras
four hundred protesters marched today in chicago, chanting, ``reagan sent the troops today, get them out is what we say.'' five hundred blocked entry to the federal building in san francisco and 80 stopped traffic at a military recruiting office near the john f. kennedy federal building in boston
the chicago arrests, on misdemeanor disorderly conduct charges, came after demonstrators pasted 8{-by-11-inch orange stickers on first-floor windows at the loop federal building and sat in intersections, police said
many of the stickers bore skull and crossbones, and the message ``stop u.s. intervention in central america.''
more than 1,000 people marched thursday night from the honduras consulate to the federal building in san francisco. in minneapolis, protesters burned the u.s. flag. a mock ``central america war memorial'' was erected in philadelphia
at fort ord, calif., home of the 7th light infantry, wives of some of the 1,200 shipped-out soldiers joined protesters at the gates thursday
bring the troops home. no contra aid, no war,'' the boston protesters chanted today as they marched. one person was arrested
we want to non-violently protest president reagan's decision to send combat troops to central america,'' said the rev. michael curry of cliftondale united methodist church in sagus, a protest organizer. curry said the marchers were affiliated with the ecumenical pledge of resistance group
i believe our actions in central america are wrong,'' said lenore azaroff, 22, of somerville. ``i believe sending troops to honduras is the first step to another vietnam.''
more than 200 people were arrested today in san francisco as they blocked traffic and the entrance to the federal building. helmeted police at one point blocked a street, rerouting rush-hour traffic. protesters stalled three cars in streets near the building, forcing police to push them to the side
at least half a dozen violent confrontations erupted when demonstrators tried to grab police equipment, including batons. officers lashed back, jamming the batons in the demonstrators' stomachs and chests
the arrested demonstrators were handcuffed with plastic ties, photographed and booked on the street, then taken in police vans to the hall of justice
police said the demonstrators arrested today would be cited and released by federal authorities, just as 25 protesters were thursday
i'm outraged by the administation's sending troops to honduras. this is to cover-up all of reagan's mistakes. it's also a cover-up to divert our attention from the indictments,'' said businessman peter holbrook
four key figures in the iran-contra scandal were indicted wednesday, the day the white house annouced the troop movements
in washington, d.c., 150 to 200 people demonstrated in front of the white house today, said police officer tom randolph. twelve men and 12 women were arrested after the protest spilled into pennsylvania avenue. they were to have been fined $50 for blocking traffic, but that was cut to $25 for disorderly conduct because they didn't use a vehicle, randolph said
hundreds of sign-carrying demonstrators marched through beverly hills, calif., thursday shouting ``hands off'' and ``no war in central america.'' no one was arrested, although police cited two motorists for excessive honking
authorities in phoenix, ariz., arrested 24 people for trespassing when they blocked the entrance to the downtown federal building with a 30-foot-long homemade sign reading ``u.s. troops out of honduras.''
in minneapolis, 400 people wearing everything from business suits to studded leather jackets dragged newspaper racks and benches into a busy street, bringing traffic to a halt during the afternoon rush hour
the protesters burned a u.s. flag and chanted slogans as they crowded the streets. no injuries were reported
in boston, 200 people marched in a circle and chanted ``u.s. troops out of honduras'' outside the john f. kennedy federal building. police said six people remained inside after closing but were evicted without incident
u.s. rep. peter defazio, d-ore., joined about 200 people who gathered outside the federal courthouse building in eugene to denounce the action by the reagan administration
protesters in philadelphia erected a 30-foot ``central america war memorial'' that mimicked the vietnam memorial in the nation's capital. it bore the names of central americans killed in the region's civil wars. about 200 people marched in front of the federal courthouse
in fargo, n.d., on thursday, 60 people chanted, sang and carried signs outside the post office to protest
at fort ord, a the base 90 miles south of san francisco, the demonstrators included a pregnant renee worthing, 21, wife of soldier james worthing. she carried a sign that said, ``stop the lies.''
i think the whole thing has just been a lie,'' she said. ``every time a presidential election comes up, a crisis comes up and the president runs to the rescue. the community is not going to stand for this.''
once the home of viking chiefs and storyteller hans christian andersen, the city of odense celebrated its 1,000th birthday friday with hopes of recapturing the grandeur of its past
this city in central denmark was once a cultural center and industrial power, but it fell on hard economic times. local officials have planned year-long millenium festivities to help generate new business
queen margrethe ii marked the city's anniversary by attending a day of music and pageantry under clear skies. fireworks and a torchlight procession were scheduled for the evening
cultural and sporting events, such as the junior cycling world championships, ballet, theater and a huge laser-based sound-and-light show, were planned for later in the year
odense is at the geographic center of denmark, on the island of funen. it takes its birth date from the first written reference to the city ever found _ a letter from german emperor otto iii granting the church in odense tax relief. it was dated march 18, 988
the city's symbol is a swan, from andersen's fairy tale of the ugly duckling, because odense developed from a poor, backward farming town to an industrial powerhouse
but odense's shipbuilding, iron and wood industries eventually became outdated, and unemployment climbed
in recent years, much of odense's income has come from tourists visiting the yellow cottage where andersen, the son of a shoemaker and a washerwoman, was born in 1805
about 200,000 people every year visit the home of denmark's most famous author, who wrote ``the princess and the pea,'' ``the emperor's new clothes'' and other tales
parts of odense are the same as in andersen's days, with winding cobblestoned streets lined with 18th-century houses. but today the charm of the inner city is surrounded by high-rise buildings and urban malls
with 173,000 residents, odense is denmark's third largest city. about 100 years ago it was the biggest in the country. today it is dominated by small companies, 97 percent of which employ fewer than 50 people
we have one of the country's highest unemployment rates, almost 11 percent and growing,'' said bjarne christensen, the city manager. the average jobless rate in denmark is 8 percent
christensen said he believed the millenium could mark a turning point
the goal is to market odense nationally and internationally, to support the culture and to create a festive atmosphere,'' he said. ``of course we also aim at attracting people and business.''
an 11-mile tunnel-bridge link between funen and the main island of zealand is to be opened in 1993, giving odense greater chances to bid for conferences
we hope to become denmark's center. with the great belt bridge, you can get here from copenhagen in an hour and 15 minutes,'' mayor verner dahlsgaard said in an interview
denmark's second tv channel, opening later this year, will be based in odense
the name odense is from ``odins vi,'' meaning the shrine of odin who was chief of the nordic gods and patron of culture and language. the city prides itself on its museums, three of them under the roof of a converted 19th-century cloth factory
north of odense at ladby, archaeologists discovered the remains of a 72-foot ship which was put into the 1,000-year-old grave of a viking chief, along with his 11 horses
christianity came to odense in the 9th century. the medevial cathedral built in 1300 contains the tomb of st. knud, a king who was murdered by his subjects for imposing high taxes
rhythm-and-blues musician ike turner, ex-husband of pop star tina turner, was convicted friday on two felony cocaine charges, but was cleared of possessing the drug for sale
turner, 55, of los angeles, was stopped in august by officers who said he was driving erratically. he was arrested when they found 5.6 grams of rock cocaine in his car
jurors deliberated four hours before finding turner guilty of cocaine possession and transportation, but not of possessing the drugs for sale. sentencing was scheduled april 15
in another case, turner was was to appear in pasadena superior court later friday on charges he sold $16,000 worth of cocaine to an undercover officer in hollywood, said the bailiff, deputy robert goldsmith
turner played backup rhythm and blues in the early 1950s before headlining with the ikettes. later that decade, he met and married miss turner. together they formed the ike and tina turner revue. their biggest hit was ``proud mary.''
the couple split in 1976, and miss turner went on to appear in feature films and record the 1985 grammy-winning record of the year, ``what's love got to do with it?'' cyprus</head>
president reagan said friday he sees a chance for significant progress toward settlement of the long-standing dispute over cyprus between greece and turkey
in a bimonthly report to congress as required by law, the president noted that the new special representative of the united nations, oscar camilion, visited cyrpus shortly after the election of george vassilou as president in february and ``expressed his hope that there will be progress in the near future.''
we also have seen the development of a new climate between greece and turkey as a result of the recent meetings between prime ministers (andreas) papandreou and (turgut) ozal,'' the president said
cyprus has been split between turkish and greek cypriots for 14 years. in 1983, the turkish cypriot minority, which makes up 17 percent of the population of 650,000, proclaimed a breakaway state in the turkish-occupied northern third of the mediterranean island nation
vassilou, a leader of the 500,000 greek cypriots, was sworn in as president on feb. 28 and promised to seek direct talks with turkey. the turks have about 30,000 troops and 65,000 settlers in the northern part of cyprus
altough talks between the two sides had been deadlocked for two years, reagan said papandreou and ozal ``have resolved to increase their cooperation and to work toward lasting solutions of the issues dividing greece and turkey. we welcome this development and resultant building of confidence and lessening of tensions in the area.''
these recent developments, he said, ``reinforce my belief that there is an opportunity at this time to make real progress toward a settlement of the dispute.''
reagan made his remarks in a letter to house speaker jim wright, d-texas, and sen. claiborne pell, d-r.i., chairman of the senate foreign relations committee
anti-government protesters set fire to a downtown department store friday as demonstrations over the playing of music in a tea shop persisted in the capital
hundreds of students and other protester demonstrated in support of students at the rangoon institute of technology who rioted march 12 after a dispute in a tea shop
one student died in the violence, which began when students argued with villagers over what songs to play on a tape player
police occupied the campus tuesday and detained a number of students suspected of fighting the villagers
larger groups of both students and villagers resumed fighting on sunday and about 200 students set fire to seven buildings, according to the burma broadcasting service
on friday, witnesses said more than 300 students from government high schools gathered at a public park
they shouted anti-government slogans, and joined by outsiders, wrecked government cars in the area. the protesters then set fire to a nearby government department store. traffic was paralyzed
several arrests were made before riot police dispersed the crowd three hours after the protest began
student disturbances are rare in this southeast asian nation, which has been under ne win's one-party rule since 1962
a bipartisan group of senators today proposed a $48 million package of new aid to nicaragua's contra rebels, including renewed authority for the cia to deliver previously stockpiled weapons
supporters said the proposal was designed to trigger negotiations in congress and with the reagan administration aimed at quick passage of an emergency infusion of aid to replace supplies lost or expended during the past week's heavy fighting along the nicaraguan-honduran border
we think it's very important right now to send a signal to the sandinista government'' which allegedly crossed the border into honduras in an effort to destroy rebel camps and supplies, said sen. david boren, d-okla., one of 11 sponsors of the new aid proposal
sen. nancy kassebaum, r-kan., said announcement of the package also would strengthen the contras as they enter direct cease-fire talks with the managua regime on monday
the proposal would use $48 million in unspent pentagon money to buy food, clothing, shelter and medical supplies, and to transport it to troops in the field, over the next year. about $3 million of that amount would go for communications gear
but in what promised to be a controversial provision, the package would allow the cia to airdrop ammunition and weapons previously stockpiled by the rebels to troops in the field. boren said the rebels still have $2 million to $5 million worth of undelivered supplies, about half of them lethal
and it would give president reagan the right to hold a quick, guaranteed vote in congress on any request for further military aid under certain conditions if the peace talks between the sandinistas and contras break down
as a ``carrot,'' the bill also would promise long-term economic aid for the region once political stability is restored
sen. daniel evans, r-wash., who has opposed contra aid in the past, said he was supporting the latest proposal because it ``is the best way to ensure that (the peace talks) have some chance of success.''
action on further aid for the rebels has been stalled since march 3, when the house narrowly rejected a $30 million package of purely humanitarian aid. aid proponents saw the sandinista incursion into honduras as a new opportunity to revive interest in aid
tan siew sin, former finance minister and head of a multinational company based here, died friday of a heart attack at age 72
he served in the cabinet from the time of independence from britain in 1957 until his retirement in 1974
after retirement he continued as economic adviser to the government
the millionaire also was chairman of the sime darby group, which owns rubber, palm oil and cocoa plantations, and trading houses and factories in malaysia, singapore, hong kong, london, australia, indonesia, the philippines and other countries
a hospital is not treating cancer patients older than 70 with radiation because of a shortage of nurses
the head of the radiumhemmet cancer clinic, jerzy einhorn, called the move ``an extremely painful decision,'' but said the hospital lacked resources to treat everyone
associate professor ulrik ringborg, an administrator at the stockholm clinic, told the aftonbladet newspaper that no one had been turned away because of age since the decision was adopted march 7. some patients, however, were offered alternative treatments to radium
the hospital's decision prompted an outcry from prime minister ingvar carlsson and government health officials. ``no one in sweden should be too old to receive the treatment needed,'' carlsson said
health minister gertrud sigurdsen called the age limit ``unacceptable and a violation of the public health care law.''
long waits are common for non-urgent treatments under the socialized medical system, but the clinic's move appeared to mark a new level in the hospital crisis. the employee shorage has been caused by resignations of experienced nurses, who complained of low salaries, overtime, stress and low status
funds for public medicine are distributed by the governments of each county. most health care is free and financed with tax money
the ruling military council on friday announced a government reshuffling that expands the military's role
there were no personnel changes in the six-man council. but one of its members, col. thabe letsie, will take on expanded duties as foreign minister. he replaces lengolo monyake, who has been reassigned as minister of works
col. ramohlanka ntsohi also was named ambassador to nearby mozambique friday. his appointment marks the first time an active military officer has been named to a foreign diplomatic post since lesotho became independent from the british in 1966
in another change, banda machobane, former vice chancellor of the university of lesotho, has become minister of education
the military council, headed by maj. gen. justin lekhanya, has banned all political activity since prime minister leabua jonathan was ousted in a january 1986 coup
the landlocked nation of 1.5 million people was once known as basutoland. it is surrounded by south africa, which heavily bolsters its economy
the european space agency has agreed after two years of contentious negotiations to take part in the u.s. space station project and provide a laboratory module to be permanently attached to the earth-orbiting facility
the agreement, approved by the 13-member esa council, provides for cooperation in the design, development, operation and use of the space station. the european investment in the module to be called ``columbus'' is expected to exceed $2 billion
the united states is currently in the detailed design stage of building the space station, which is expected to be ready for occupancy early in 1998. the estimate of u.s. costs has risen from a projection of $8 billion made in 1984 to more than $30 billion in current dollars
japan also is expected t contribute $2 billion and canada about $800,000
cooperation between the united states and esa seemed doomed to failure late in 1986 when the pentagon announced it wanted to retain its options for military research on the station. the national aeronautics and space administration had to assure its european, as well as canadian and japanese partners, that no major weapons systems would be placed aboard, although the research option remains
nasa said the agreement ``marks the end of more than two years of negotiations on the technical and programmatic framework between the two agencies in the largest cooperative civil space project undertaken.''
in its decision thursday, the esa council authorized director general reimer luest to sign a memorandum of understanding with nasa administrator james c. fletcher in the near future
the memorandum of understanding is being reviewed by the reagan administration, then will be submitted to congress for review before it is signed by the two parties
it also has to be approved by each of the esa member governments: austria, belgium, denmark, france, west germany, ireland, italy, netherlands, norway, spain, sweden, switzerland and the united kingdom
in addition to providing the columbus module to the space station complex, the esa also will furnish an unmanned free-flying polar-orbiting platform for earth observation experiments. the united states is developing a similar platform
as a third element, esa will provide a free-flying spacecraft designed to accommodate long-duration microgravity applications in the fields of fluid physics, life and material sciences, nasa said. that spacecraft will be visited periodically by astronauts
the free-flyer will be launched into an orbit, compatible with that of the space station, by an ariane 5 rocket
presidernt reagan invited european participation in the space station program in 1984 and nasa and esa agreed the following year on what elements would be provided by each agency
roman catholics plan to demonstrate march 25 in the slovakian capital of bratislava to bolster calls for a free and independent church, religious sources said friday
the planned demonstration was intended to back a petition calling for religious freedom and separation of church and state. that petition has been signed by 400,000 czechoslovak catholics, according to slovakian church sources in bratislava and vienna, austria
cardinal frantisek tomasek, czechoslovakia's catholic primate, has urged his flock to sign the petition. it has gained support from religious believers throughout the nation, where bishops and priests are paid with government funds and must receive state approval before taking their posts
demonstrators also will press for quick appointment of 10 new bishops. government officials have been arguing with the vatican over the vacant posts
no breakthrough has been achieved so far, and the talks are scheduled to resume in rome on april 11, a czechoslovak government spokesman said this week
the planned demonstration was announced in a letter to local authorities by franitsek miklosko, a catholic layman, according to the austrian catholic news service kathpress. organizers of the rally reportedly told authorities it will be peaceful with participants lighting candles symbolizing their support
there has been no comment from the government on the planned demonstration
the senate approved by voice vote friday a bill that would boost from $700 million to more than $7 billion the pool of insurance available for swift disbursement to victims of a major nuclear accident
moments earlier, the chamber narrowly rejected an amendment by sen. john glenn, d-ohio, designed to bolster oversight of the 127 nuclear facilities run by the department of energy, including plants involved in the production of nuclear weapons
glenn proposed the establishment of an independent panel to investigate safety problems at the doe's aging reactors. but after winning an early test vote, 47-44, he was defeated on each of four successive roll calls in parliamentary maneuvering that saw both sides scrambling for last-minute converts
on his last chance, glenn lost, 49-42, after coming within a vote or two in the intervening tallies
the senate's action on the overall bill, a 20-year extension of the price-anderson act, sent the measure back to the house, which approved a slightly different version last july
since 1957, the law has provided for a nationwide pool of insurance funds that would be tapped to compensate victims of an accident at a nuclear reactor or related facility
under current provisions, the pool could pay up to $700 million if the accident involved a commercial nuclear power plant, and up to $500 million if it involved a government-owned facility. both the house and senate versions of the renewal legislation would boost the amount in both cases to more than $7 billion
glenn agreed that the monetary boost is necessary when measured against the lessons resulting from the explosion and fire at the chernobyl reactor in the soviet union in 1986. but ``price-anderson insurance is no substitute for steps to prevent a nuclear accident,'' he said
glenn cited a long history of safety and environmental problems at the doe's nuclear plants, including the savannah river production reactors in south carolina
it is a terrible irony,'' he said, that while the nation seeks to deter a nuclear attack by constanting upgrading its own nuclear arsenal, ``large numbers of americans are in danger of being poisoned by radiation in peacetime.''
glenn, whose governmental affairs committee has revealed a number of environmental and safety hazards at doe plants, proposed an independent oversight panel with the authority to appeal directly to the president for safety improvements if the energy department balked at its reports
the amendment was opposed by armed services committee chairman sam nunn, d-ga., and energy committee chairman bennett johnston, d-la. both said they could support glenn's proposal if it is attached to a separate defense authorization bill later in the year, but they argued it did not belong in the price-anderson package
the bill would require nuclear utilities to continue to buy the maximum amount of private liability insurance available, now amounting to about $160 million per plant
if the private insurance proved insufficient to compensate victims of an accident, each of the nation's commercial plants, now totaling 110, would be assessed an equal amount to cover the additional costs, to a maximum of $7.06 billion. under that provision, each plant could have to pay up to $63 million
the government, meanwhile, would self-insure its own plants, up to the same $7 billion total. if a single accident proved even more costly than that, it would be up to congress whether to appropriate additional taxpayer funds
the no-fault system, for both private and government plants, shortcuts the usual legal requirements for damage claims by eliminating the necessity for victims to bring individual lawsuits in court. the nuclear industry has long agreed to that facet of the program in exchange for the cap on total liability. conservatives'</head>
pat robertson said friday he is staying in the republican presidential race despite vice president george bush's overwhelming delegate lead because ``there has to be a rallying point for conservatives.''
otherwise, the former television evangelist told a news conference, conservatives would lose their political leverage to influence bush on specific foreign or domestic policies or influence his selection of a vice presidential running mate
if everybody drops out, then whatever policies are being advocated by george bush will become the policies of the republican party,'' robertson said
but, he conceded, ``if the trend continues, george bush has a pretty close lock on it, absent some unforeseen event.''
certainly i'm a realist and i can count,'' robertson said, referring to bush's accumulation so far of more than 700 of the 1,139 delegates needed to win the gop presidential nomination in august. the associated press delegate count gives robertson just 17 delegates
robertson said he is continuing his campaign to further the conservative principles of president reagan
i'm a supporter of ronald reagan. i'd like to see the reagan policies of 1980 and the republican platform of 1984 carried on to 1988,'' he said
questioned about farm issues, robertson said he wants ``a world that is free of subsidies by the year 2000'' but that he supports ``some writedown of farm debt'' for family farmers. robertson said he would redirect agricultural subsidy funds from agribusiness to family farmers
eighteen members of congress flew to michigan friday trying to help revive the flagging presidential campaign of fellow rep. richard gephardt, who said, ``i'm the underdog today but that doesn't really matter.''
rep. john dingell of trenton, mich., said gephardt's support in the house was significant because ``we in congress don't like weaklings or phonies.''
a new poll published friday showed gephardt well behind democratic rivals michael dukakis and jesse jackson in michigan. but the missouri congressman said, ``i think you will see that the gephardt message about economic revival is going to get through to the michigan voters.''
gephardt, soundly beaten on super tuesday and then again this week in illinois, has pinned much of the future of his campaign on the march 26 michigan caucuses, which will allocate 138 of the state's 150 delegates to the democratic national convention next july in atlanta
eighty house members support his nomination, gephardt has said. among the 18 who joined him friday was michigan's rep. dingell, who said gephardt's support among members of congress reflected their greater experience with him than with jackson and massachusetts gov. dukakis
he ``is obviously a known quantity,'' dingell said. ``we also know how he responds in a crisis. we in congress don't like weaklings or phonies.''
gephardt dismissed a new survey, conducted for the detroit free press and wxyz-tv and published in friday editions of the newspaper, that showed dukakis and jackson each favored by 32 percent of michigan democrats or others leaning toward the party
gephardt was preferred by 10 percent of the 328 voters surveyed earlier this week. sens. albert gore jr. of tennessee and paul simon of illinois each had 6 percent support, and 14 percent was undecided. the poll's margin of error was plus or minus 5 percentage points, the free press said
the candidate said he had overcome poor showings in surveys prior to the iowa democratic caucuses and in other states
we're going to make political history in michigan, just as we did in iowa,'' he said
gephardt had also flown house colleagues in to help him in iowa
that time, 42 congressmen flew on a chartered plane that cost $15,500, an expense partially defrayed by lobbyists who flew along. the plane ride turned into a flying fund-raiser, drawing pointed comments from critics who noted that gephardt was running as the anti-establishment candidate
gephardt spokesman mark johnson said friday there were no lobbyists on the plane this trip. ``you all make much more of this than we do. this is just, send them out to a couple events and come back.''
the congressmen flew into detroit on two planes, he said, one belonging to chrysler and the other a regular charter. ``the campaign paid for it _ first class airfare for everybody,'' he said
illegal immigrants who find amnesty application fees too steep will be able to get interest-free loans from the catholic diocese of el paso, the bishop said friday
i think it's good for our community for these individuals to become citizens,'' bishop raymundo pena said. ``they would have better opportunities to get good-paying jobs and that would help our economy.''
under the program, people who apply for immigration amnesty through the diocese's migrant and refugee services program are eligible for one-year loans if they live below the federal poverty level
under the immigration reform and control act of 1986, people who have lived in the united states illegally since before jan. 1, 1982, are eligible for amnesty. immigrants who qualify for amnesty are granted temporary residency, and are eligible later for permanent residency and then citizenship
the deadline for applying is may 4. the government announced friday it will give people seeking amnesty 60 additional days to submit supporting documents
the immigration and naturalization service charges a filing fee of $185 per person or a maximum of $420 per family, plus a $75 counseling fee and a $10 photo and fingerprint fee
applicants also must go to a doctor for a medical exam. often, they hire lawyers to help them, and the search for documentation can become expensive. the ins justifies the fees by saying they are a way to ensure that applicants won't become public charges
i think the government has a valid argument that they should be self-sufficient,'' pena said at a news conference. ``but illegal immigrants get caught in a catch-22 situation where they can't get a work permit, so they can't get a job that pays enough money.''
ins spokesman art moreno said the agency approves of the program
about 27,000 people in new mexico and west texas have applied for amnesty so far, moreno said. an estimated 10 percent of those qualified for amnesty can't afford the filing fees, the rev. rick matty said
the diocese needs about $60,000 to fund the loan program, and has raised about $12,000 so far from businesses and individuals, pena said
a couple accused by a 13-year-old girl of having sex on a trans-atlantic flight were arrested, and two men who began throwing food when a flight attendant intervened also were charged, police said
the passengers were arrested when american airlines flight 37 from munich, west germany, to san diego, calif., made an intermediate stop in chicago, said sgt. jerry thornton of the police o'hare international airport unit
but phillip matin, 52, of loomis, calif., said he and his wife were sleeping
this was the fantasy of a young girl that is completely uncorroborated,'' matin told the sacramento (calif.) bee on thursday. ``it's ridiculous.''
it was broad daylight, and there were people walking around,'' matin said. ``even at home with our kids, we are careful.''
he and his wife, sharyn jo van tassell, 42, a lawyer and part-time judge, were arrested monday and charged with public indecency
police said most passengers apparently were asleep during the atlantic crossing when the girl motioned to her mother that she believed the couple across the aisle was engaged in a sex act
the girl's mother summoned a flight attendant, who notified a supervisor, barbara weiderman, thornton said
ms. weiderman told the plane's captain, and the captain radioed police to be on standby at o'hare
at that point, two other passengers ``became abusive and belligerent'' and began throwing food and drinks at flight attendants, according to the police report
roger f. cline, 42, of placerville, calif., and stanley wells, 53, of cameron park, calif., were both charged with disorderly conduct
all four missed the continuation of their flight to san diego, but paid the bonds set on their misdemeanor charges and were released pending april court appearances, police said
matin, a doctor, was also charged with possession of a controlled substance after authorities found eight yellow pills in one of his bags. matin said the pills were valium but he couldn't prove they were prescription drugs because the bottle they came from was in his luggage
merv griffin's $225 million offer for resorts international inc. has put him at odds with the hotel and casino operator's flamboyant chairman, donald trump
griffin co., the former talk show host's private company, made its $35 a share offer contingent on winning trump's backing and his agreement to end his five-year management agreement for resorts' atlantic city, n.j., properties
but an attorney for trump spurned griffin's offer thursday as a ``blatant attempt at market manipulation.''
the new york real estate baron controls about 90 percent of resorts' voting power and is offering $22 per share to take the company private. his lawyer claimed griffin's offer was instigated by another major resorts shareholder seeking to force trump to raise his bid
resorts' board decided thursday that griffin's offer was ``moot'' and reiterated its support for trump's bid
in response, a spokesman for griffin, who broke into the hotel business late last year by buying the beverly hilton in beverly hills for $100 million, said he is considering legal action against resorts' outside directors
former prime minister pierre trudeau's ex-wife, margaret kemper, has been charged with marijuana possession, her lawyer said
the royal canadian mounted police charged her in provincial court thursday after seizing a package at her home
she denies the offense and is anxious to get this matter cleared up in court,'' said lawyer michael edelson
canadian press news agency reported that police seized the package after an informer in british columbia tipped them off that ms. kemper would receive one pound of marijuana in the mail
ms. kemper, 39, is to appear in court april 11
the jet-setting former first lady divorced trudeau in 1983 and married ottawa real estate developer fried kemper the following year, with whom she has one son
former mayor dianne feinstein says she's hoping to learn about big business in her new role as board member of bancal tri-state corp. and its bank of california subsidiary
i'm a private citizen and not looking to make any political decisions this year,'' she said thursday after her election to the board. it was her first professional venture since leaving office two months ago
the new job is ``an opportunity for me to learn more about a major business in the bay area and the state of california,'' feinstein said. ``i'm just a beginner.''
the corporation expanded its board from 15 to 16 members to make room for the ex-mayor, who attended her first meeting after her election and was assigned to the trust committee
audrey hepburn said she was overwhelmed after visiting drought-plagued northern ethiopia, where millions are threatened with starvation
let us hope that the spades we provide them will be used to dig wells, not to dig graves for children,'' she said thursday
miss hepburn, on a three-day visit in her first assignment as a special ambassador for the united nation's children's fund, said she would appeal around the world for long-term development aid to help ethiopia overcome recurrent drought, as well as massive emergency aid to stop this year's disaster reaching famine proportions
western novelist louis l'amour has won a $55,000 out-of-court settlement against la plata county and a power company in a battle over a power line that crosses his ranch
colorado-ute electric association last august completed a 345,000-volt power line supported by three poles and a lattice tower on l'amour's 1,000-acre ranch in southwestern colorado
i can't sit around trying to write looking at these monsters,'' l'amour said earlier. ``that's what these towers look like _ monsters from mars.''
l'amour has shunned 100 acres of his ranch because he fears the power line poses a health hazard, his attorney, russell yates, said friday
the county agreed to pay l'amour $4,000 and colorado-ute will pay $20,000 to settle l'amour's claim that approval for the power line was arbitrary, yates said. the utility also will pay $31,000 in compensation, he added
cheered by about 150 flag-wavers, king carl xvi gustaf and queen silvia of sweden toured this province's legislature friday
the couple received bouquets of flowers from well-wishers as they walked up red-carpeted steps to be welcomed by premier bill vander zalm and other provincial officials
flowers in sweden's colors of blue and yellow adorned the rotunda and the legislative library where the king and queen learned a bit of british columbia history
the royal couple also met 85-year-old britta wickham, who moved to canada in 1923 from sweden. wickham called it a once-in-a-lifetime experience
after two dismal seasons, many maple syrup producers say the sap is running well this season and hope their good luck will last
we've got it coming out of our ears. we've got so much sap we don't know when we're going to get it all boiled in,'' said nancy clark of clark's sugar house in alstead
clark's sugar house, which usually produces about 1,000 gallons a season, only made 620 last year. this year the trees have yielded about 500 gallons
a year ago we were at 411 gallons,'' said roger adams of stuart and john's sugar house in westmoreland. ``this year we're at 1,250.''
last year, stuart and john's produced only 1,400 gallons; in a good year they produce up to 3,000 gallons
about 60 percent of the state's maple syrup is produced in the connecticut river valley, where producers are pressed to keep up with the flow, said agriculture commissioner steve taylor
prices have leveled at about $35 a gallon, taylor said, adding that even with a good season, he does not expect prices to drop dramatically because demand remains high after the last two years
annual maple syrup production in the state averages about 77,000 gallons, taylor said. however, the last two crops yielded about 47,000 gallons, compared to the bumper crop of 102,000 gallons in 1984
the poor crops were directly attributable to a cycle of warm days and warm nights. without cool nights and warm days, sap doesn't run
the weather has everything to do with it,'' adams said
though some producers experienced small sap runs two weeks ago, this week's sunny weather following cool evenings had buckets and pipelines overflowing
this last time it started running it doesn't seem it'll ever stop,'' clark said. adams added that his two wood-fired evaporators are ``going full tilt.''
liz bascom, co-owner of the state's largest syrup producer, bascom's sugar house in acworth, said she was unwilling to predict a banner year because a quick thaw could end the season as quickly as it began
shirley sullivan of broken ridge farm said the sap was running so heavily that it almost guaranteed she would be working until midnight
i like that,'' she said. documents</head>
the federal government on friday tried to bolster its amnesty program by giving illegal aliens who file in the final month of the plan 60 more days to provide documents to support their applications
under the change in the program _ which has attracted a lower-than-anticipated number of applications _ amnesty seekers will be able to file a skeletal application from april 4 to the may 4 deadline without producing back-up documentation and medical data until sometime after july 5
the reagan administration has said it opposes extending the filing deadline, despite sentiment in congress to do so
if any of you have ever filed your income tax on the night of the 14th of april, there's usually one document or one fact you don't get,'' attorney general edwin meese iii told reporters at an immigration office in arlington, va. ``we want to be sure that doesn't stop anybody from this program.''
just over 1 million amnesty applications have been filed, and although a last-minute surge is anticipated, the volume of requests is likely to fall far below the 2 million estimated as recently as january by alan nelson, commission of the u.s. immigration and naturalization service
our goal is not two million,'' meese said. ``our goal is for every eligible person to apply.'' if an eligible alien doesn't apply by may 4, ``that's the person's fault, not ours,'' he added
legislation with 60 co-sponsors would extend the filing deadline for another year, but meese opposed the idea of extending it
there's no reason to,'' he said. ``the more confusion and hesitancy ... in the program, the more the temptation is out there then to postpone and postpone and postpone.''
rep. charles schumer, d-n.y., who introduced the extension legislation, called the change ``virtually meaningless.''
the administration's approach assumes many illegal aliens haven't filed because they lack documentation. but ``many illegal aliens have not stepped forward, because they still fear the ins,'' schumer said. ``to them the ins is the agency that is supposed to throw them out of the country.''
meese said that if an extension were granted, at the end of that time ``people would say they extended it before, they'll probably extend it again.''
it is our hope that on may 4 every single person who is eligible for legalization will have applied,'' the attorney general said
the application can be completed in less than 30 minutes, nelson said
since the amnesty program began last may 4, ins personnel have ``gone the extra mile in all respects and it seems sad at the end not to deal with it in a little more flexible way,'' said jerry tinker, staff director of the senate subcommittee on immigration and refugee policy
short of legislation, there were a number of administrative steps ins could have taken, including deferring the payment of fees _ $420 for families _ to encourage people to apply for amnesty
tinker said there were extensive discussions with ins officials over various administrative moves and ``for them to come forth with this mouse was disappointing.''
under the 1986 immigration reform and control act, illegal aliens who have lived in the united states since jan. 1, 1982, can be granted amnesty if they provide documentation supporting their claim of having lived here for the past six years
meese and nelson also announced another change in the program that would give private groups more time to locate aliens eligible for amnesty
in the past, these private groups assisting the immigration service collected fees only after they had completed filling out forms for an applicant, a process that can take three hours or longer
under the change, the groups will be given a referral fee for each applicant as soon as they have directed an alien to an ins legalization office
the following was filed by otto kreisher of copley news service, steven komarow of the associated press and robert cohen of newsweek, members of a pentagon press pool covering the u.s. troops in honduras
hundreds of american paratroopers filled the morning sky friday in a spectacular show of military muscle
u.s. ambassador everett briggs said the action filled a honduran request for support against what he insisted was an invasion by nicaragua
this readiness exercise is a fine demonstration of our ability to respond very quickly, when requested, and to show support,'' everett briggs told reporters at the scene of the parachute drop of about 800 men from the 82nd airborne division of fort bragg, n.c
briggs said that stories that the united states had pressured honduran president jose azcona into requesting the exercise ``are absolutely false.''
he said azcona first approached him on tuesday
they asked for ways in which we could demonstrate our support,'' briggs said. ``we discussed ways we might respond and settled on this particular method.''
even though the white house said the cable from azcona wasn't received until late wednesday, more than eight hours after troops were put on alert for the mission, briggs said he was sure the letter was written tuesday night
referring to the 1,500 to 2,000 sandinista troops who he said have crossed into honduras, briggs said ``by central american standards, i don't think it's wrong to call it an invasion.'' he said most of those nicaraguan troops were still in honduras
briggs said the honduran ministry had reported that its aircraft ``had made a couple of runs along the border'' in response to the sandinista invasion. he quoted the honduran minister as saying they hit a nicaraguan helicopter
the united states was not suggesting to the hondurans what type of military response to make. ``this is their country and it's their country that has had this fairly large sandinista incursion,'' he said. ``they've been telling us what they plan to do and asking our support.''
gen. fred f. woerner, commander of the u.s. southern command based in panama, came here to review the exercise and said it was ``a reassuring factor to our allies, not only in honduras, but elsewhere.''
woerner said also there were ``some very, very preliminary'' indications that the sandinistas were starting to withdraw, but he said the duration of the u.s. exercise was ``not necessarily'' linked to that
friday's parachute drop went ``absolutely super,'' said brig. gen. daniel schroeder, commander of the joint task force, who said the force of 3,000 men would be complete later in the day after a few more planeloads arrived with troops of the 7th infantry division of fort ord, calif
honduran defense minister wilfredo sanchez valladres greeted the men shortly after they landed in the brush-covered valley about five miles south of the air base
we thank you for coming to work with us,'' he said. ``the morale of the honduran people has been reinforced by this.''
the morale of the troops also was buoyed by the chance to conduct an exercise away from their home base and near a combat scene
schroeder smiled but deferred when asked whether he thought the troops wanted to see action against the sandinistas. obviously, he said, the men were aware of the nearby battles and he said ``the adrenaline is pumping.''
sgt. doug longpre, 22, of the 82nd airborne said, ``everybody is psyched up about being down here.''
hours after the paratroopers arrived, another battalion of the 82nd airborne was flying out of palmerola in helicopters for joint exercises with honduran troops in an area nearer but still 100 miles from the combat zone
the u.s. commanders continued to say their orders were to stay away from actual conflict. troops were ready and had ample ammunition and weapons including light tanks and artillery to respond if called upon, they said
the arrival of the paratroopers was the most dramatic display of the american deployment, but most of the troops and supplies were being delivered by a stream of jet transports that arrived every half hour around the clock. the aerial convoy included a giant c-5 galaxy which brought attack reconnaissance and troop-carrying helicopters
the paratroopers spilled out of eight air force c-141 jets on a calm, clear morning and the airbone commander said it was completed without injury
schroeder said part of the training value of the exercise was the change in climates. they had boarded their planes at fort bragg in freezing cold and then floated down in the tropical heat. nicaraguan request</head>
the security council convened an urgent meeting today at nicaragua's request to discuss the nicaraguan-honduran conflict and the deployment of u.s. troops in honduras
the 15-member council, the highest u.n. body charged with maintaining international peace and security, was to hear three speakers: nicaragua, honduras and the united states
in washington, white house spokesman marlin fitzwater said today the united states supports the meeting
asked if the united states would present ``show-and-tell'' evidence of nicaraguan forces invading neighboring honduras, fitzwater said the production of evidence is up to honduras. he stressed that the movement of american forces into honduras was strictly in response to a request of honduran president jose azcona
the united states sent 3,200 troops to honduras after charging that nicaraguan troops entered honduras in pursuit of contra rebels
secretary-general javier perez de cuellar, meanwhile, was studying nicaragua's request to send an observer team to its border with honduras on a fact-finding mission
the meeting was called for information purposes and there were no immediate plans for a resolution. the 159-member world body usually votes with nicaragua and other latin american and developing countries against the united states
on thursday, nicaragua's chief delegate, julio icaza gallard, sent a letter requesting an ``urgent and immediate'' meeting on the u.s. action. nicaragua's speaker was expected to be rita dalia casco, director of international organizations within the foreign ministry
earlier thursday, gallard denounced the united states during a security council debate on british military maneuvers in the disputed falkland islands claimed by argentina
he condemned british ``buccaneers who pillaged our coast in the past.''
nicaragua today is the vicim of the threats and aggression of another american state,'' he said. ``it denounces, once again, this gunboat policy which reflects disdain for our dignity and rights. we must oppose them with the force of right, law, justice and the decisive strength of international solidarity to win respect for our sovereignty.''
the secretary-general has urged all parties to exercise restraint and abide by the guatemala accord, signed by all five central american nations
the council members are the united states, britain, china, france and the soviet union _ the ``big five'' permanent members with veto power _ and yugoslavia, algeria, argentina, brazil, italy, japan, nepal, senegal, west germany and zambia
police on friday announced they recovered nearly all of the $8 million in u.s. cash that vanished from a february air shipment from the united states to argentina
it was the largest brink's robbery in the history of the company, which was protecting the cash
the money was recovered by narcotics agents working for rio de janeiro's specialized police department
four suspects, all brazilian employees of a private cargo firm that operated at rio's international airport, were arrested
it's obvious they planned it together. we are going to interrogate them to find out how they pulled it off,'' said nilo augusto batista, head of the specialized police department
the suspects and the recovered money were shown to reporters at the narcotics squad's headquarters, a dilapidated, turn-of-the-century building in downtown rio
the suspects, all appearing to be in their late 20s, hid their faces from reporters and clicking cameras and refused to answer any questions
the money was part of a $52 million shipment from the federal reserve board in new york to the central bank of argentina, said marven moss, a spokesman for brink's inc., based in darien, conn
the money disappeared feb. 5 when 13 canvas sacks containing $52 million were transferred in rio's international airport from a flight from new york to one to the argentine capital of buenos aires. two of the sacks never made it to argentina
batista said the cargo company which hired the four suspects ``took the money out of the first plane, put it on a cart and took it in for inspection by government officials. afterward the money was placed inside vans and taken to the second plane'' for the trip to argentina. somewhere along the line $8 million vanished
he said the first break in the case came when the narcotics squad of his department came across certain information about the theft apparently from tipsters with connections to rio's drug trafficking world
even though this case was, technically, not in the drug area, our people followed the tip, and the result was nearly total success,'' batista said. he added that the dollars were traced to the states of sao paulo, espirito santo, minas gerais and rio de janeiro, where the thieves tried to exchange them, apparently for other american dollars or for foreign currency
narcotics division detective antonio carlos estevam, who coordinated the three-man team that arrested the four suspects and found the money, said ``it was a combination of solid police work and luck. we have no crystal ball.''
usually, when there is a large theft of money, most of it gravitates to the drug world. this is the theory we operated on after the airport incident. i would say we have achieved what no police force anywhere else has ever achieved. we captured all the suspects, recovered practically all the money and no one was hurt,'' estevam said
estevam said the operation started thursday when two of the suspects were arrested in a car in the ilha do governador district located near the airport. later that day, two more suspects were arrested and the money was recovered
batista said the four suspects were brazilians and that there were no signs of involvement by foreigners. he added that none of the money wound up in the hands of drug dealers
the recovered money belongs to brink's, since its insurance repaid the federal reserve board for the theft, moss said
parents and schools are keeping closer watch on their children as authorities and volunteers look for a man who has tried to lure youngsters into his car in new hampshire-massachusetts border communities
police report that the man has approached children at least a dozen times in the last three weeks in atkinson and plaistow, as well as over the border in merrimac, haverhill and methuen, mass
generally, they say, he drives alongside youngsters walking alone in the late afternoon or early evening, rolls down the window and asks the children their names and where they are going, then offers a ride
the man has driven slowly by children in his town, shouting, ``i'm going to get you,'' atkinson police chief phillip consentino said
so far, police say, he has not been able to lure anyone into his big brown or maroon car, but he gotten out and chased a couple of kids, one of whom escaped to home as the man fell on ice
my concern is that there is going to be one gullible kid out there that is going to get in a car,'' said plaistow police sgt. thomas bourque. ``then who knows what is going to happen.''
he said a plaistow youngster was chased on foot by the man, who got back into his car and left when the youngster ran to a house and pounded on the door
police have distributed a composite drawing of the man, and it is posted in schools and on school buses. schools are scheduling programs to teach children how to deal with strangers and to instruct parents
bus drivers have met to talk about how to better protect their riders, and atkinson police have been following buses
in plaistow, police in unmarked cars, people from the schools or parents have been watching for the stalker
bourque said kids are ``showing some fear,'' but ``seem to know what to do _ they are running. they don't talk to the guy.''
the children are fleeing so quickly, that none has been able to get the license plate number of the man's car
state treasurer ann richards has been loudly urging texans to claim long-forgotten money left in state coffers, but joseph phillips is finding it hard to heed her call
how long does it take?'' phillips, 48, asked thursday, more than seven months after first filing to reclaim $900 from the state
the money belongs to phillips and his sister, patricia crawford, and was part of a trust left by their father, who died in 1985. the money was left erroneously to languish in a bank account and found its way into the treasury under a law stipulating that accounts inactive for at least three years be turned over to the state
the treasurer's office says there is no question that phillips should get the money. it is part of about $60 million owned by 75,000 residents and companies but held by the state
you can be assured that if you have money coming to you, you will get it,'' ms. richards said at a press conference earlier this month to publicize efforts to return the money
but phillips was not assured: ``i thought, if they are that slow in responding to me, how in the world are they going to handle more claims?''
phillips first filed his claim with the treasury last aug. 7 after a trust official told him about the money. in january, he filled out another form. later, he discovered his sister also would have to complete a form, which took him several weeks just to obtain
three weeks later, after reading about ms. richards' news conference, phillips wrote the dallas morning news
a spokesman for ms. richards conceded to the news that the claim had taken too long. he said the claim was complicated and that a series of miscues, including a change of address by the unclaimed property division, caused delays
we are expediting a check,'' he told the news. phillips will get his check within four weeks _ after it's cleared by the attorney general's office, he assured
angry dockworkers moved massive blockades across the entrance to their port near the panama canal on friday to fight off an army takeover by troops loyal to gen. manuel antonio noriega
noriega fired his intelligence chief and four other officers in an apparent purge of his fractured defense forces, which came two days after a failed coup attempt against the military strongman
four american military police officers were arrested in the capital by panamanian authorities and held for several hours, the pentagon said
the panamanian newspaper critica said the americans were carrying handguns, maps of the capital and ``military implements'' when they were detained in an area ``where daily activities disturbing the public order'' had occurred
panamanians, without cash for weeks, lined up at public parks and pay stations to receive partial payment and bags of food being doled out by the government
noriega gave no reason for friday's ousters
col. bernardo barrera had been in charge of intelligence for the 15,000-member defense forces, which includes panama's army, navy, police and air force
a source close to the defense forces said barrera might have been faulted for not knowing in advance of wednesday's coup attempt, which was said to have involved a few junior officers lead by the nation's police chief, col. leonidas macias
the other ousted officers were identified by the military press office as majs. juan oberto, pablo pinto and jose williams and capt. orlando iguez. their units and positions were not disclosed
at the balboa port, about a mile outside the panama canal, about 300 striking dockworkers moved car-sized containers across the port entrance to fight off an army takeover ordered thursday by the government
the port is shut down,'' said one dockworker. ``we won't accept anything less than what they owe us,'' he said, asking not to be identified for fear of reprisal. ``we'll wait here for them (the army).''
four shipping containers were stacked across the port entrance. they formed a barricade nearly 20 feet high and no vehicles or machinery were passing in or out
ports at panama city and colon, used primarily to receive and ship cargo, closed monday when dockworkers angry about not being paid went on strike. the panama canal commission said the shutdowns had no effect on its operations
in addition to the ports, the military was ordered to take over the nation's electrical, water and telephone companies, airports, and the ministries of education, health and finance, all of which had been struck by workers demanding salaries
the four american military police arrested thursday night in panama city were identified by the critica newspaper as danny h. feltro, william jerry, virts richard and tammy markley
the newspaper did not provide their ranks or other information, and the pentagon said friday it could not immediately confirm the identities printed by the paper
a u.s. southern command statement in panama city said the four were members of a military police detachment checking on the ``security of dependent families'' living in the area in which they were detained
the u.s. militry dependents, like everyone else in panama, have been without lights and water for extended periods because of the recent strikes
long lines of public employees, including teachers and electrical workers, gathered at special pay stations around the capital to receive partial payment of their semi-monthly salaries
each employee was receiving only $75, sometimes with $35 paid in old, commemorative panamanian coins kown as balboas
the government also began handing out free bags of food containing beans, rice, processed cheese and other staples of the panamanian diet. it had been selling the bags for between $14 and $15
more than 1,200 people lined up for the bags at a park near the center of the city to receive food
the government, short of cash for months because of its inability to renegotiate a huge foreign debt, began running out of money three weeks ago when depositors began a run on the country's banks
the bank run began on feb. 26, the day after noriega deposed the nation's president, eric arturo delvalle, in a thinly disguised coup. devalle had tried to fire noriega the day before in a move that backfired
the action by delvalle, who still is recognized by the united states, came after noriega was indicted by two grand juries in florida on charges of narcotics trafficking
illinois sen. paul simon said friday he is having trouble raising money but took a jab at better-financed democratic presidential rivals, saying ``if you're talking about buying the nomination, i can't do that.''
simon, in pennsylvania for a series of fund-raising events, said none of the five remaining candidates in the democratic field can win enough delegates to claim the nomination on the first ballot at the atlanta convention this summer
even massachusetts gov. michael dukakis, who has a narrow lead in delegates, would need to pick up 80 percent of the delegates in remaining states to have the 2,082 needed to win the nomination, simon told a news conference
that just isn't going to happen, so we're going to have a wide-open convention,'' he said. ``i think you're going to see a wide-open process and i think it's going to be a very healthy thing for the country.''
he acknowledged he is still having trouble raising money, but said he expects to remain competitive and bring in more money as he wins more delegates. simon won his first primary on tuesday in his homestate
if you're talking about buying the nomination, i can't do that. if you're talking about winning the nomination, i can do that,'' he said. ``i intend to be in the race through atlanta, through november the 8th.''
earlier in the day, simon met briefly with gov. robert p. casey, who has not yet endorsed a candidate for president and might not before the primary
i really have to make a basic decision on whether or not to get involved and that's the process i'm going through now,'' casey said
simon said he would not seriously contest the march 26 michigan caucuses but predicted he would do well in the april 5 wisconsin primary and the april 19 new york primary, which is one week before pennsylvania's vote
commenting on his chances here, simon said, ``i am candid in saying if there were a poll taken today in pennsylvania, i'm sure paul simon would not emerge on the top. but after the headlines and the television coverage for wisconsin and new york, you're going to have a very different situation in pennsylvania.''
a high-ranking east german transport official defected to west germany and led authorities friday to arrest a suspected communist spy, officials and news reports said
the mass-circulation newspaper bild said the woman was arrested following the interrogation of the defector and was suspected of having spied for east germany
west german officials identified her as a secretary in the federal ministry for economic cooperation
earlier friday, security sources said ulrich fuchs, one of the four deputy directors of east germany's state-run deutrans transport company, had defected to west germany
the sources, who requested anonymity, said west german intelligence officials hoped to learn more about how east germany uses its long-haul trucks to spy on the west
bild said the woman had access to secret documents provided to the ministry by west germany's intelligence service. the documents dealt mainly with the situation in third world countries, such as nicaragua and angola, the newspaper said
the national television network ard said the documents did not contain military information
alwin brueck, a former state secretary in the ministry in whose office the woman worked for some time, identified the suspect as elke falk, according to ard
bild said the woman returned several days ago from a vacation in austria, where she may have met with communist colleagues
hans-juergen foerster, spokesman for the federal prosecutor's office, confirmed the woman's arrest but declined to link the two cases
he said the woman, whom he refused to identify, was in investigative custody. she is suspected of having supplied information to a communist secret service since 1975, when she met an agent known to authorities under the false name of gerhard thieme, foerster said. he declined to identify the communist agency
bild said thieme was an east german agent who recruited the woman after seducing her. she is in her 40s and worked in the ministry's european section since 1987, following other positions in the ministry, the newspaper said
west germany's counterespionage agency had placed the woman under surveillance one year ago, bild said
several government secretaries have been unmasked as communist spies in recent years
margret hoeke, a long-time secretary in the west german president's office, was convicted of spying for the soviet kgb and sentenced to eight years in prison last august. during her trial, ms. hoeke described how she began spying after falling in love with an east bloc agent
sonja luenburg, chief secretary to economic minister martin bangemann, vanished in august 1985 and is believed to have fled to east germany
west german sources said fuchs was undergoing interrogation by counterespionage officials at an undisclosed location in west germany
they said fuchs had also unofficially worked for the east german secret service, ``but apparently was no big fish.''
the sources added that further questioning of fuchs could give more insights into his activities for the communist secret service
but bild quoted unidentified security experts as saying fuchs was one of the most important defectors in 10 years
the newspaper said friday fuchs defected in early march during a business trip to the west
bild said fuchs knew ``everything about the secret spying trucks of east germany and the soviet union, he knows secret meeting points for agents and courier methods used by communist spies.''
quoting an unidentified counterespionage expert, bild said the west germans hoped to learn about the electronic equpiment built into soviet bloc trucks, the routes they take while traveling through the west and about ``safe houses'' used by communist agents
west german security officials long have suspected east german truckers of using their drives through west germany to report on military movements and gather other information for the east german secret service
bild said about 3,000 deutrans trucks pass through west germany every month. the trucks are usually equipped with sensitive cameras and electronic listening devices, bild said. study says</head>
a white house comission on friday said the government should turn over to private businesses the operation of prisons, air traffic control facilities, mail delivery and scores of other services
agencies now providing those services ``have become muscle-bound to the point of paralysis,'' the panel's chairman, david f. linowes, told reporters after presenting president reagan with what he called the first ``independent, exhaustive analysis'' of the privatization issue
linowes, however, acknowledged that the bulk of the 78 recommendations in the 278-page report by the president's commission on privatization are unlikely to be enacted before reagan's term ends next janaury
we didn't take on this job with the expectation that it would stay with just one administration,'' he said. ``for the most part we opt for an incremental approach. we know americans don't take kindly to sudden change. they like them to evolve.''
the recommendations include repealing laws that created the u.s. postal service's monopoly, putting the federal aviation administration's flight service facilities and control towers out for private bids and selling the naval petroleum reserves in california and wyoming
the panel also called for the use of vouchers or direct subsidies to individuals for housing, education and elderly care rather than pouring any more money into public housing projects or federal aid for public schools
and the commission would sell to private banks and other financial institutions the government's $250 billion portfolio of housing, business, agriculture and education loans
government should not be in the business of business,'' linowes said. ``the well-developed banking industry can take over those loans ... freeing up billions of dollars for the federal treasury.''
many of the recommendations, such as selling the petroleum reserves and government loans, have been proposed in the past by reagan and rejected soundly in congress each time
and critics were quick friday to predict that initiatives based on the white house commission's report also would fail
luckily, it won't fool anybody except those who want to believe it,'' said robert m. tobias, president of the 59,000-member national treasury employees union. ``it should die with the rest of the administration's foolish ideas at the end of 1988.''
however, linowes, a democrat, said he believes lawmakers gradually will warm to the recommendations as the work of an independent, bipartisan commission
the facts will argue for themselves,'' he said. ``for example, vouchers will provide the same amount of low-income housing for one-third the cost of public housing.''
linowes said all of the commission's recommendations include two caveats:
first, government must never abdicate its responsibilities for setting policy and standards; and second, the rights of current employees cannot be abrograted as a result of these changes.''
white house spokesman marlin fitzwater, reflecting the scant attention that the administration gave to privatization in its proposed 1989 budget except for pilot studies involving military commissaries and federal prisons, called the report forward-looking
the work ... is close to the president's philosphy of government,'' fitzwater said. reagan ``campaigned ... on a platform of limited government. ... we are continuing those efforts.''
reagan appointed the 13-member commission last september, and linowes estimated the cost of its study at $450,000
he said the panel found that most agencies, often because workers lack incentives for coming up with new ideas, ``are trying to deal with today's problems using yesterday's solutions.''
for example, he said visits to air traffic control towers revealed the use of outdated computers
the checks and balances of government do not lend themselves to managing high technology,'' linowes said. ``government should reach out by opening its operations to the creative talents and drive of entrepreneurs.''
conservatives launched a campaign friday to persuade president reagan to pardon lt. col. oliver l. north, with one saying, ``juries don't convict heroes who stand 10 feet tall.''
indicting a true american hero _ at a tremendous cost _ is completely unacceptable and should be rejected immediately,'' l. francis bouchey, president of the council for inter-american security, said in a statement issued at a news conference
in a related development, pentagon sources said friday that north has asked to retire from the marine corps. north submitted his request thursday, asking that he be allowed to retire effective may 1, when he will have completed 20 years of active military service, the sources said
the conservatives said they have formed an ``ollie north task force'' to lobby for a pardon for north and john m. poindexter, former head of the national security council
sen. steven symms, r-idaho, sent a letter to reagan asking him to pardon north, symms office said
the two former white house aides _ along with arms dealers richard v. secord and albert hakim _ have been charged with conspiring to defraud the government in the iran-contra episode. the case involved diverting money from the sale of weapons to iran to the nicaraguan rebels
bill kling of the foreign policy project said he thought the public supported north. ``juries don't convict heroes who stand 10 feet tall,'' he said
north and poindexter are a ``package deal,'' on pardons, according to andrew messing, head of the national defense council foundation
but he and others refused to commit themselves to seeking pardons for secord and hakim
messing said secord and hakim were in a different category because they were businessmen who stood to gain personally from the iran-contra affair, he said
marlin fitzwater, reagan's spokesman, said there have been no discussions at the white house about possible pardons
leftist guerrillas on friday burned buses, taxis and other vehicles that defied their nationwide ban on transport, and they threatened more sabotage to disrupt weekend elections
the farabundo marti national liberation front, an alliance of five guerrilla groups, claimed its fighters attacked three soldiers guarding a gas station outside this capital
the armed forces press office said it could not confirm or deny the report, made on the guerrilla radio station. the radio said three soldiers were killed or wounded, but it didn't give details
the guerrilla radio venceremos said ``our demolition squads will carry out new actions in repudiation of the elections.'' it also said ``urban commando cells are carrying out actions to ensure the transport ban's success.''
salvadorans on sunday elect all 60 members of the legislative national assembly and mayors and municipal councils nationwide. the guerrillas, who have been fighting the u.s.-backed government since 1979, call the elections a farce. they say free and fair balloting is impossible in wartime
they decreed an indefinite nationwide transport ban beginning friday to protest and disrupt the elections
a poll published friday by san salvador's central american university indicated more than 80 percent of prospective voters intend to cast ballots despite the guerrilla call for a boycott. but the same poll indicated about half the electorate either rejects all the candidates or remains undecided
the poll of 914 people in 11 of the country's 14 provinces gave the rightist national republican alliance, or arena, an edge over the governing christian democrats in the assembly vote
the centrist christian democrats have 33 deputies but are expected to lose that majority. no leftist party is participating in the elections
the privately owned radio station ysu, with correspondents in almost all 14 provinces, said guerrillas burned eight vehicles in the eastern province of usulutan. the radio, citing police and armed forces officials, said the vehicles destroyed were two buses, two tractor-trailers, two pickups, one jeep and one taxi. no injuries were reported in the destruction of the vehicles
there were no other reports of violence from other provinces
intercity bus transport was reduced by about 80 percent nationwide, according to dispatchers. the capital's two main bus terminals were virtually deserted friday morning
one person died and 18 were injured when an overcrowded pickup overturned in the capital
scores of pickups with people packed in the beds and standing on the bumpers circulated in san salvador, partially taking the place of privately owned buses, none of which was seen on the road
the pickup owners were charging 60 cents _ six times the normal bus fare
the government put several dozen blue and white state-owned buses on the street, and they, too, were overcrowded, with people riding on the roof luggage rack, hanging from the doors and standing on the bumpers. army trucks also were used for passenger transport
many people simply walked to work
of 10 people randomly consulted on the city sidewalks, not one supported the transport ban
it hurts everybody,'' said computer programmer jose ortiz. he said he thought election turnout would be high ``because lots of people feel they made a mistake last time they voted and now they want a change.''
he cited what he said were the christian democrats' unkept promises
the (transport) ban is a problem for all of us. it makes a tough situation even tougher,'' said ricardo quintanilla, a laboratory worker consulted during his three-mile walk to work
about the elections, he said: ``they don't offer much hope for solutions to the country's problems. but voting is a habit, so lots of people will vote.''
the following dispatch was filed by frederick kempe of the wall street journal, a member of a pentagon press pool covering the arrival of u.s. troops in honduras
the commander-in-chief of the u.s. southern command said he was skeptical that u.s.-backed efforts to oust panamanian strongman gen. manuel antonio noriega would bring any quick results
putting a time line on gen. noriega is probably one of the greatest hazards of our profession,'' said gen. fred woerner, who was on an inspection mission to observe the arrival of about 800 paratroops from the u.s. army's 82nd airborne division
he said this week's failed coup attempt showed that the ``solidarity of the panamanian defense forces has been ruptured.''
woerner ruled out the possibility of using u.s. troops to help bring down noriega, something he said was a matter for the panamanian people
he wouldn't comment on whether the united states military would respond if panamanian president eric arturo delvalle requested its assistance in the future
delvalle has been in hiding since his aborted attempt to fire noriega as military leader last month. noriega responded by forcing the ouster of delvalle, but the united states still regards him as panama's constitutional leader. noriega has been indicted by two federal grand juries in florida on drug-trafficking charges
woerner provided a gloomy description of panama's internal situation in his brief remarks during the second day of maneuvers here
the city is locked up. the economy has come to a standstill. the people are afraid, intimidated. the normal political processes are non-functioning. people are desperately struggling for their basic freedoms,'' he said
bonnie miskanin has been the wife of an 82nd airborne division paratrooper for six years. two days ago, she found out exactly what that means
her husband, sgt. donald miskanin, ``left for work about 4:15 a.m. wednesday,'' she said. ``the day went on and everything was fine when i noticed around 6 o'clock that he wasn't home yet.''
mrs. miskanin, 27, said she called a friend whose husband was in the same unit as her husband at fort bragg
she told me they had been deployed to honduras,'' she said friday
the united states deployed 3,200 u.s. troops, 2,000 of them from the 82nd airborne, after reported incursions into honduras by nicaraguan soldiers pursuing contra rebels. the last of the troops left early friday for what is described as a non-combat show of force
mrs. miskanin said 6-year-old donald jr. has been taking his father's absence ``very rough.''
as for herself, she said she had been drawing on the support of friends, family and other army wives
we just stick together,'' she said. ``we act like our husbands are right here in the field.''
paula arndt, 21, said she also relied on other army wives since the departure of her husband, spec. 4 chester arndt, whom she hasn't seen since wednesday morning
the more the pressure keeps building, you have to let it out,'' she said. ``you take it day by day. i'll be taking care of my baby, doing my household chores, and doing a lot of praying.''
as the last of the troops from the fort prepared to leave thursday, soldiers said they were excited but also nervous
i'm only 18,'' said pfc, james bullard jr. of shallotte, a soldier since july. ``yeah, i get scared. you don't know what's going to happen. all i know is we're going on a readiness exercise. i'm nervous, real nervous
but i signed on the dotted line, so i have to deal with it,'' he said
dewitt bodeen, who wrote or was co-writer on scripts for the films ``cat people'' and ``billy budd,'' has died. he was 79
bodeen, who began his career as an actor and was a former board member of the writers guild of america, died march 12 of bronchial pneumonia at the motion picture and television hospital, said spokeswoman jean ferris
in addition to ``cat people,'' bodeen's scriptwriting during the 1940s included ``the seventh victim,'' ``the curse of the cat people,'' ``the yellow canary,'' ``i remember mama,'' ``mrs. mike,'' ``the girl in the kremlin'' and ``twelve to the moon.''
he also wrote ``the enchanted cottage'' with herman j. mankiewicz, and in 1962 collaborated with peter ustinov on ``billy budd.''
bodeen worked in new york and california, and in the late 1930s became a script reader at rko pictures, which led to a seven-year contract as a staff writer
in the 1950s he returned to new york and wrote for such television shows as ``climax,'' ``lux video theater'' and ``four star playhouse.''
in 1969 the academy of motion picture arts and sciences commissioned him to help edit the book ``who wrote the film.''
he also produced a volume of 12 vignettes of actresses, ``ladies of the footlights.'' his last book was ``the films of cecil b. demille.'' he retired in 1977
there were no services
democratic presidential candidate michael dukakis criticized the reagan administration's sending of troops to honduras as he split his campaign day friday between michigan and kansas
he spoke with junior high school students in michigan, then flew to kansas, where democrats hold party caucuses on saturday. he was returning friday night to michigan for appearances at union halls with sen. edward kennedy. michigan's democratic primary is one week from saturday
the whole policy in central america is illegal,'' dukakis said at a news conference after addressing a student assembly at mason junior high school in drayton plains, just outside pontiac
call back the troops and end this,'' he said
the massachusetts governor said the assignment of troops to central america runs against agreements signed by members of the organization of american states. he said if he were president, he would end aid to the contra rebels and back a central american peace plan drafted by costa rican president oscar arias and signed by five central american nations
as long as you have an administration that's obsessed with the overthrow of that government (in nicaragua), the peace process cannot begin,'' dukakis said
on tuesday, dukakis had failed to win any delegates in the illinois primary. but despite gains in illinois by favorite sons paul simon and jesse jackson, dukakis dismissed what some have suggested is a growing possibility of a brokered convention, one in which no candidate enters with a clear majority
i've always felt from the beginning that somebody would emerge ... from the primary process with a good plurality, particularly if the field begins to thin down a little bit,'' he said
on other matters, dukakis:
_urged a reduction in military spending through scaling back the president's star wars space-based missile defense program. ``if you're going to spend $6 billion on star wars, you can't spend $6 billion on housing,'' he said
_spoke broadly about a change in u.s. policy in the middle east, saying the united states must show leadership in the region. ``my secretary of state would have been pushing ahead as a follow-up on the camp david accords,'' he said
democratic presidential candidate albert gore jr. on friday sought the favor of puerto rico voters ahead of their sunday primary, saying he would consider allowing the territory to be exempt from federal minimum wage laws
gore, addressing potential delegates of the popular democratic party of gov. rafael hernandez colon, also said he favored letting puerto rico decide itself whether to become a u.s. state
gore appeared in person while another democratic candidate, michael dukakis, made a videotaped address in spanish to the same delegates. dukakis said if he is elected, he would work to increase payments to puerto ricans under the medicaid, aid to families with dependent children, and supplemental security income programs
during the past several years, unfortunately, puerto rico has not received from the federal government the help it deserves in the fight for economic opportunity for everyone,'' dukakis said
a main issue in the campaign is control of the local democratic party. both the pdp, which favors the political status quo, and the rival new progressive party, which favors statehood, want to use the party to win appointments and influence legislation in washington
democratic and republican primaries in this caribbean island of 3.5 million located 1,000 miles southeast of florida are set for sunday. the state election commission projects that 1 million voters _ more than one of every two _ will cast ballots
the democrats will choose 51 delegates, all of them officially uncommitted
fourteen gop delegates are at stake in a winner-take-all vote that george bush is expected to dominate
only bush, who won the 1980 primary and is strongly linked with the pro-statehood movement, organized a real campaign
on friday in a telephone interview with a local broadcast station, bush defended the sending of u.s. troops to honduras
we did the proper thing,'' he said. ``we are for freedom and democracy. there is no question that nicaragua invaded honduras.''
puerto ricans are u.s. citizens with most every right and obligation except they cannot vote for president and do not pay federal taxes. puerto ricans may, however, vote in presidential primaries
the knight-ridder inc. board of directors said friday it plans to elect james k. batten the company's president and chief executive officer
the board would take that action at a meeting following the annual company meeting april 15, said frank n. hawkins jr., knight-ridder vice president for corporate relations and planning
the board also announced that alvah h. chapman jr., who reaches company retirement age of 67 on march 21, has agreed to continue as chairman of knight-ridder at the board's request. chapman has been chief executive officer since 1976 and chairman since 1982
the holdings of miami-based knight-ridder include 31 daily newspapers, such as the miami herald, the philadelphia inquirer, the san jose (calif.) mercury news, the charlotte (n.c.) observer, and the detroit free press; eight network television stations, an international business information services company, and interests in cable television and newsprint operations
batten, 52, has been president of knight-ridder since 1982. he is also a member of the associated press board of directors
he worked as a reporter for the charlotte observer and spent five years as a correspondent in knight-ridder's washington bureau, specializing in southern politics and civil rights
he also has worked as assistant city editor for the detroit free press, executive editor of the charlotte observer, knight-ridder's vice president for news, and senior vice president for news. he was elected to the board of directors in 1981
chapman joined the knight organization in 1960, became vice president and general manager of the miami herald, and was the herald's president from 1969 to 1983. ira volley at graveside of third man.</note>
catholics buried two more victims of sectarian violence friday in peaceful services that followed 10 straight nights of rioting in belfast
one of the victims, thomas mcerlean, 20, was killed in an attack during an irish republican army funeral at the milltown catholic cemetery on wednesday
police said a protestant gunman grabbed by mourners following the attack will be charged with murder next week. the gunman, michael stone, 33, is accused of the assault in which three people were killed and 68 injured
stone also will be charged with ``other serious crimes, including murder'' not connected with the milltown attack, said the police spokesman. he spoke on condition he not be identified
stone was beaten by the roman catholic crowd that captured him and was under armed guard in a hospital. an alleged accomplice also remained under arrest
press association, the domestic british news agency, said stone also was being questioned about 10 other sectarian killings
also buried friday was charles mcgrillen, 25, who was shot monday outside a belfast supermarket. the outlawed ulster freedom fighters, a protestant extremist group, claimed responsibility for his shooting
the ira fired a three-volley salute, its traditional tribute, thursday night for kevin brady, 30, a member shot dead in the cemetery attack as he chased the gunman
hooded ira men fired the volleys, which are prohibited, as brady's coffin was being taken from his home to st. agnes roman catholic chapel, where a funeral mass is scheduled for saturday
security forces kept a low profile as mcgrillen and mcerlean were buried in separate funerals friday
the ulster freedom fighters expressed guarded support for the cemetery attack
we understand his frustrations and motives, and we do not condemn his actions,'' the group's statement said of the gunman who opened fire and threw hand grenades at the mourners in the cemetery
a caller, who gave a code word to prove authenticity, telephoned the statement to the belfast newsroom of the british broadcasting corp
gerry adams, president of the outlawed ira's legal political wing, sinn fein, said at a news conference that stone was not ``a lone lunatic'' and reiterated charges that the royal ulster constabulary, the province's mainly protestant police force, colluded in the attack
i do know he wasn't a kamikaze because he wore gloves, he wore a cap, he had plotted out a route and he did intend to escape,'' adams said
the allegations of collusion have been rejected by the royal ulster constabulary and denied by northern ireland secretary tom king, britain's top official in the province
adams said sinn fein has launched its own inquiry into the attack
he sat at a table flanked with pictures from the republican news, sinn fein's weekly newspaper, which had photographs of two guns it said were recovered at the cemetery and the gunman's black beret and gloves
the paper said a browning 9mm automatic pistol manufactured in belgium was taken from the captured gunman. it had jammed with 12 rounds of ammunition left, the paper said
a .357-caliber magnum revolver similar to those used by the royal ulster constabulary in the early 1980s was found at the cemetery, the paper said
asked whether the guns would be turned over to police, adams said he did not know where the weapons were
in the sporadic overnight rioting, which died down in the early hours of friday, catholic youths hurled gasoline bombs at police patrols and a row of protestant homes in belfast and burned and hijacked cars
a judge declared a mistrial friday in the case of tran van khiem, brother of vietnam's ``dragon lady'' madame ngo dinh nhu, who is accused of slaying their parents two years ago
judge fred ugast of district of columbia superior court ruled khiem incompetent to testify about the strangulation deaths of his elderly parents, who had lived in washington since resigning from their diplomatic posts with the old south vietnamese government in 1963
ugast issued his ruling ``with great reluctance,'' after a court-appointed psychologist examined the defendant thursday and found him ``profoundly delusional.''
ugast ordered khiem returned to st. elizabeths hospital, a city mental institution, for 90 days. he said the court would then reconsider whether khiem could testify
khiem, 62, is charged with two counts of first-degree murder in the july 1986 deaths of his father, tran van chuong, 88, former south vietnamese ambassador to the united states, and his mother, nam tran chuong, 82, former observer to the united nations
the defendant has stated that his parents were killed because of his father's alleged part in the assassination of president kedy and south vietnamese leader ngo dinh diem
neither prosecutors nor defense attorneys have turned up any evidence to support khiem's assertions, and his attorneys argued that his grandiose claims and the finding of the court psychiatrist were reason enough to declare him unfit for trial
ugast had ruled in november that the defendant should stand trial but be evaluated throughout the legal proceedings to make certain he could assist his attorneys in preparing his defense
madame nhu was first lady of vietnam for her bachelor brother-in-law diem, and has lived in exile near rome since the u.s.-backed coup that resulted in the killing of diem and her husband ngo dinh nhu in 1963
she was known as the dragon lady because of her harsh attitude toward the buddhists in her country. her parents resigned their diplomatic positions to protest that attitude
gov. evan mecham, facing senators' hostile questions at his impeachment trial, said friday he believes the state's top lawman is guilty of leading a mutiny against him
mecham said he wishes he had fired department of public safety director ralph milstead, who has accused mecham of obstructing justice
i wish i had done that because we wouldn't be sitting in this body today,'' he said. ``i have highly repented that.''
do you feel director milstead is guilty of mutinous service, yes or no?'' asked sen. tony west, a republican like mecham
yes, i do, sir,'' said mecham who had previously hedged on answering the question
west noted that in the military, mutiny is punishable by death
i wouldn't propose we take director milstead out and shoot him,'' said the governor. ``i would protect him against that.''
but mecham angrily blamed milstead and others for his current predicament
pressed on why he didn't fire milstead, he said, ``i had a war going on with the attorney general and i didn't need any others.'' milstead had been been appointed by mecham's democratic predecessor, bruce babbitt, and under state law could be removed by mecham only for good cause
milstead, who is out of the country, previously testified during the trial that mecham told him not to cooperate with attorney general bob corbin's investigation of an alleged death threat against former mecham aide donna carlson. she was a grand jury witness in an investigation of mecham's campaign finances
mecham acknowledged some details of his much-quoted conversation with milstead, but said he still thinks the death threat allegation was ``a bunch of hot air.'' he also said, ``we have really worked to make a mountain out of molehill.''
the obstruction of justice claim is the first of three broad charges against mecham being considered by the arizona senate. he also is charged with concealing a $350,000 campaign loan and with misusing $80,000 from a governor's protocol fund by lending it to his auto dealership
it would take a two-thirds vote of the 30-member senate to convict mecham and remove him from office. the senate could then take another vote and forbid him from ever holding state office again
mecham also faces a criminal trial april 21 on the charge that he concealed the $350,000 loan and a recall election may 17
the 63-year-old first-term governor, who had a jaunty demeanor in his first two days on the stand, appeared weary and defensive as his third day of questioning ground on
you have missed the total point!'' he snapped at one senator
when another senator accused mecham of keeping an enemies' list, the governor shot back, ``i don't need a list.''
mecham lashed out at those who had testified against him. he accused milstead of misusing state vehicles and office help and of living out of wedlock with a woman, ``which is against the law in arizona.''
he accused dps lt. beau johnson of stealing an important report from his desk and indirectly leaking it to the news media, and he accused ms. carlson of taking things from his desk. johnson formerly headed mecham's dps security detail, while ms. carlson was his legislative liaison
he said he was not paranoid but ``realistic'' in believing that corbin, also a republican, was trying to mortally wound him politically. he also accused newspapers and ``others who hold high positions'' of working against him
corbin, contacted later, said he had no comment
when questioned about the alleged death threat on ms. carlson, the governor continued to plead ignorance of the details. ``i knew nothing of a death threat. i knew nothing of a serious nature,'' he said
democratic sen. carolyn walker pressed mecham on his state of mind on nov. 15, when he told milstead he should not cooperate with the attorney general's probe
is it fair to say you put your political career ahead of the good of the people of arizona?'' the senator asked
certainly not,'' said mecham
effective implementation of the u.s. immigration and naturalization service's amnesty program for illegal aliens depends on a ``vigorous public outreach and public education campaign,'' according to an american bar association report released friday
the report, issued by the aba's national executive forum on the immigration reform and control act of 1986, said it is imperative to find ways to reach eligible aliens, inform them and encourage them to participate before the program ends
the legalization program was developed to provide amnesty to an estimated 2 million undocumented workers. it is open to those aliens who lived illegally in the united states before jan.1, 1982, and to agricultural workers who can show they lived in this country for at least 90 days in the year ended may 1, 1986
the aba report, the result of a two-day conference funded by the gannett foundation, also recommended that the ins allow applicants to file a ``short form'' legalization application and adjust its interpretation of regulations to make the program available to the maximum number of aliens
for those 1.3 million aliens who have already applied, the report stressed the need for letting them know what to do to obtain permanent status
the statute requires that after an 18-month period, the applicant must demonstrate a ``minimal understanding of ordinary english and a knowledge of u.s. history and government'' or make satisfactory progress in courses of study to that end. failure to do so would result in loss of permanent status
massachusetts gov. michael dukakis and jesse jackson appear to be far ahead of their rivals among likely new york democratic primary voters, according to poll results released friday
with a month to go before the delegate-rich new york primary, the marist college institute for public opinion reported that 37 percent of the 459 likely democratic voters surveyed preferred dukakis while 28 percent said they would vote for jackson. the poll's margin of error was plus or minus 5 percent
the remaining democrats trailed far behind with tennessee sen. albert gore jr. at 5 percent, illinois sen. paul simon at 4 percent and missouri rep. richard gephardt at 3 percent. almost 13 percent of those surveyed were undecided
the final 10 percent opted for an uncommitted line that will appear on the primary ballot. that line is the product of an effort by elected democratic county clerks, many of whom said they would like new york gov. mario cuomo to run for president
the iran-contra affair shouldn't pose a problem for george bush's candidacy because voters are not interested in the issue, former sen. john tower said friday
i fully expect the opposition to use it on him, but i don't think it's going to have a major impact. i think the electorate will tend to focus on the problems of the moment,'' said tower, who served as chairman of president reagan's special panel that investigated the iran-contra affair
the issue ``has already been used in the campaign'' by bush's opponents for the gop nomination, tower said, but it has ``fallen a little bit flat.''
admittedly that's among republicans, who are probably a little tired of it anyway because of the embarrassment to the republican administration,'' tower added. ``they don't like to hear it brought up.''
supporters of presidential candidate pat robertson say they have won nearly half the seats on the louisiana republican state central committee and on saturday intend to elect a pro-robertson candidate as state republican chairman
we elected 45 robertson supporters ... and we have 20 sympathizers on the committee already so we feel we have close to 65 of the 140 votes from the start,'' said john rodeno, a coordinator for robertson's campaign
robertson's near majority on the central committee was the result of a well-orchestrated strategy. prompted by a direct mail and telephone campaign, robertson forces made a point of marking ballots for state central committee posts during last week's super tuesday primaries
most of louisiana's other republican voters chose only presidential candidates at the polls that day
the central committee members will meet saturday in baton rouge where a robertson candidate for state chairman, david thibodaux, faces gop mainstay william nungesser sr
conventions
the coordinator of jesse jackson's presidential campaign in south carolina says he won't ask a judge to stop county conventions monday after party chairmen agreed to send delegate lists by saturday
we are not going to spend time with legal action,'' kevin gray said friday, one of a growing number of democrats who believe the party should be holding a primary in the state
nineteen county conventions are meeting monday and another 27 counties are meeting march 28. jackson was the overwhelming winner at last saturday's 1,788 precinct caucus meetings
the panamanian government declared a national ``state of urgency'' friday that gives it the power to suspend individual freedoms
a decree said the action was taken because of ``a real situaion of undeclared war against the republic of panama'' by the united states and the domestic political opposition
the decree did not specify what measures would be taken and said only that ``the executive branch will adopt the measures adequate for the preservation of public order to repell the domestic and foreign attacks on the national economy and to face the state of urgency throughout the country.''
it said that for the past several weeks, ``panama has been the object of an attack on its economy by the united states of america in coordination with national political sectors desperate to take over the government by force.''
the situation, it said, affects the ``structure of national life.''
the decree was based on article 51 of the panamanian constitution which gives the government the power to suspend ``temporarily, partially or totally individual rights and liberties'' in cases of war or internal disturbances affecting peace and public order. unpaid ...</note>
the panamanian government declared a national ``state of urgency'' today that gives it the power to suspend individual freedoms
a decree said the action was taken because of ``a real situaion of undeclared war against the republic of panama'' by the united states and the domestic political opposition. the decree did not specify what measures would be taken
the nation's military strongman, gen. manuel antonio noriega, also dismissed a colonel in charge of military intelligence and four other officers in an apparent purge following a coup attempt
meanwhile, unpaid dockworkers at the balboa port at the mouth of the panama canal in panama city defied an army takeover of the facility, blocking its entrance with large shipping containers
four american military police officers were arrested thursday while they were on duty and released after about eight hours, the pentagon said today
the government-owned newspaper critica said the soldiers were arrested near the university of panama and were carrying handguns, maps of the city and ``other military implements.''
the paper identified them as danny h. feltro, william jerry, virts richard and tammy markley, but did not provide hometowns. the pentagon said it could not immediately confirm the identities
among those forcibly retired by the panama defense forces was col. bernardo barrera, who had been in charge of intelligence for the 15,000-member military organization, which combines panama's army, navy, police and air force. noriega derives his power from the defense forces, which he heads
the others were identified by the military press office as maj. juan oberto, maj. pablo pinto and maj. jose williams and capt. orlando iguez. their units and positions were not disclosed
no reason was given for their dismissal, but the action came only two days after troops loyal to noriega foiled an attempted coup by what was said to be between eight and nine junior officers led by the nation's police chief, col. leonidas macias
macias and four other officers were arrested during an attempted takeover of the defense forces headquarters in panama city early wednesday. they are being held, but no charges have been announced
at the balboa port, about 300 dockworkers said they were awaiting the arrival of soldiers, who were ordered to take over the facility thursday by the nation's civilian head of state, manuel solis palma
by decree, he also ordered the military to take over the nation's state-owned electric, water and telephone companies, airports, and the ministries of education, health and finance, all of which had been struck by workers demanding their salaries
the port is shut down,'' said one dockworker at the union hall at the entrance of the facility, about a mile from the miraflores locks of the panama canal, the first set of three locks for ships entering the canal from the pacific
meanwhile, opposition leaders expressed dismay that widespread protests have been unable to remove noriega, and many now openly say only a u.s. military intervention can do so
it is something we, as panamanians, do not want to see, but the legal conditions for military intervention exist,'' said a leader of an opposition party. like others interviewed, he spoke on condition he not be identified
the civic crusade, a broad anti-government coalition, had planned demonstrations thursday but the sight of hundreds of soldiers carrying automatic rifles and tear gas canisters through the streets of the capital apparently discouraged them
the trans-panama pipeline carrying alaska oil across the isthmus en route to gulf coast markets resumed operations today, a spokesman for the pipeline said. it had stopped because of electrical outages wednesday and thursday
service was restored at 6 a.m. (est) this morning,'' he said. ``we actually never stopped loading and unloading at both ends. we stopped the actual pumping from one end to the other because for that we depend on public energy. but we have our own plant at each end for loading and unloading.''
workers were on strike because the cash-starved government, under economic pressure by the united states, was unable to pay them
some shops opened in downtown panama city thursday but banks, which shut their doors march 4, remained closed
talk of possible u.s. intervention stems from politicians' frustration in a country used to strong military governments that give opposition parties little room to maneuver
i guess right now a large majority of panamanians would welcome a u.s. military intervention,'' said the leader of another large opposition party. ``but three months later everybody would be saying, `yankee, go home
we are just desperate for a change in the situation,'' he added
on feb. 25, a day after noriega was indicted by federal grand juries in florida on drug trafficking and money laundering charges, president eric arturo delvalle tried to fire the general
the next day, noriega had the national legislative assembly, which he controls, vote delvalle out of office. the united states continues to recognize delvalle, who is in hiding, as panama's legitimate president
here are tentative schedules for the presidential candidates for the week beginning march 20. the information was provided by the candidates

sunday, march 20:

democrats:
dukakis _ michigan
gephardt _ detroit; afternoon off
gore _ new york city
jackson _ palm springs, oakland and mendocino, calif
simon _ michigan

republicans:
bush _ washington, d.c
dole _ wisconsin
robertson _ san jose, los angeles and santa anna, calif


monday, march 21:

democrats:
dukakis _ boston
gephardt _ michigan (detroit area)
gore _ new york; connecticut; pennsylvania
jackson _ denver, colo.; washington, d.c
simon _ texas; san francisco

republicans:
bush _ new jersey; connecticut; washington, d.c
dole _ wisconsin
robertson _ los angeles and riverside, calif


tuesday, march 22:

democrats:
dukakis _ boston; hartford, conn
gephardt _ traverse city and marquette, mich
gore _ harrisburg, pa.; michigan
jackson _ michigan
simon _ wisconsin

republicans:
bush _ washington, d.c
dole _ wisconsin
robertson _ california; va. beach


wednesday, march 23:

democrats:
dukakis _ boston
gephardt _ washington, d.c
gore _ michigan; wisconsin
jackson _ michigan
simon _ wisconsin

republicans:
bush _ washington, d.c
dole _ connecticut
robertson _ washington, d.c


thursday, march 24:

democrats:
dukakis _ open
gephardt _ michigan
gore _ washington, d.c
jackson _ 1@2 day off; michigan or wisconsin
simon _ michigan

republicans:
bush _ hartford, conn
dole _ connecticut
robertson _ fairfax, va


friday, march 25:

democrats:
dukakis _ open
gephardt _ michigan
gore _ michigan
jackson _ michigan
simon _ michigan

republicans:
bush _ open
dole _ open
robertson _ va. beach


saturday, march 26:

democrats:
dukakis _ open
gephardt _ open
gore _ wisconsin
jackson _ wisconsin
simon _ wisconsin

republicans:
bush _ los angeles and palm springs, calif
dole _ open
robertson _ va. beach


sunday, march 27:

democrats:
dukakis _ open
gephardt _ open
gore _ open
jackson _ connecticut
simon _ open

republicans:
bush _ open
dole _ open
robertson _ va. beach says</head>
the air force adopted a policy friday that decisions by military wives to work outside the home are none of the service's business
if the spouse of a serviceman chooses to work instead of volunteering to help with local air force base activites and charities, that decision ``is a private matter'' and cannot be used in judging the serviceman's qualifications for promotion, the new policy states
the policy change was recommended by a special task force that was created last september, shortly before an internal investigation concluded two wives of senior officers at grissom afb, ind., had been pressured to quit their outside jobs with warnings the careers of their husbands would suffer if they didn't
that investigation also found that while pressure had been brought to bear on the wives, the commanding officers were not guilty of any misconduct because the air force didn't have a written policy on the matter at the time
in its new policy statement friday, the air force said: ``no commander, supervisor or other air force official will directly or indirectly impede or otherwise interfere with this decision (by the spouse)
neither the decision of the spouse in this matter, nor the marital status of the military member, will be a factor used to affect the evaluation, promotion or assignment of the military member.''
the policy statement was signed by air force secretary edward c. aldridge and gen. larry d. welch, the service's chief of staff, who had created the seven-member task force of air force military and civilian officials
that panel, in a 21-page report released friday, described promulgation of the new policy as essential but also warned of widespread skepticism that it would have any effect
the common belief (within the air force) was that the `two-for-one' policy is currently operative, and that spouse participation would continue to be a major factor in promotion and selection for command.''
the ``two-for-one'' policy is shorthand for the expectation that the wife of a serviceman will forgo career aspirations of her own in order to support her husband's career
the task force said the days of unmarried servicemen were long gone _ ``64 percent of the air force's members have family responsibilities'' _ and that ``societal changes'' were having a substantial impact
subtle changes in the nation's family structure have created a dichotomy for the air force spouse _ accommodate the needs and aspirations of the individual family, while meeting the needs of the broader family, the air force community.''
senior commanders schooled in the old ways might not like it, the panel continued, but military spouses increasingly resent the ``institutionalized'' pressure on them to support military careers through volunteer work
and, the panel continued, they particularly resent a dual standard that has now become starkly clear _ ``it is all right for the husband of a military woman to work in the civilian community, but if the wife of a military man works, she is often perceived as shirking her responsibilities to the air force family.''
this conflict between the old and the new results in significant consequences. it reduces participation, erodes morale, impacts retention and limits creative leadership.''
besides recommending a new, enforceable policy statement, the panel urged welch and aldridge to establish a ``professional volunteer management program'' to recruit and recognize military spouses who wish to perform volunteer work, while using air force family support centers to help those spouses who preferred to seek jobs. discussed</head>
a bipartisan group of senators proposed a $48 million package of new aid to nicaragua's contra rebels friday, including renewed authority for the cia to deliver previously stockpiled weapons
as u.s. troops continued to arrive in honduras in a show of force, assistant secretary of state elliott abrams said additional assistance was being discussed with honduran president jose azcona, in response to a reported nicaraguan incursion
white house chief of staff howard baker said president reagan would give ``most careful'' consideration to any request from honduras for troops to help repel nicaraguan forces, although he reiterated that u.s. troops were not expected to be involved in any military operation in the region
one of the senate's leading peace advocates, sen. mark o. hatfield, said the sending of u.s. troops amounted merely to ``matching stupidity with stupidity'' and introduced legislation barring the troops from a combat role without permission from congress
sponsors of the new contra aid proposal said they hoped it would revive negotiations in congress and with the reagan administration on an aid package that could be quickly enacted to replace supplies lost or expended during the past week's heavy fighting along the nicaraguan-honduran border
but the extent of the damage inflicted on the rebels by the sandinista incursion remained unclear. sen. david boren, d-okla., chairman of the senate intelligence committee, said the nicaraguan troops were withdrawing without accomplishing all their objectives
we think it's very important right now to send a signal to the sandinista government'' which allegedly crossed the border into honduras in an effort to destroy rebel camps and supplies, boren said
sen. nancy kassebaum, r-kan., said announcement of the package also would strengthen the contras as they enter direct cease-fire talks with the managua regime, scheduled for monday. ``this is a common-sense, moderate and reasoned approach,'' she said
the proposal would use $48 million in unspent pentagon money to buy food, clothing, shelter and medical supplies, and to transport it to troops in the field, over the next year. about $3 million of that amount would go for communications gear
but in what promised to be a controversial provision, the package would allow the cia to airdrop ammunition and weapons previously stockpiled by the rebels to troops in the field. boren said the rebels still have $2 million to $5 million worth of undelivered supplies, about half of them lethal
and it would give president reagan the right to hold a quick, guaranteed vote in congress on any request for further military aid under certain conditions if the peace talks between the sandinistas and contras break down
as a ``carrot,'' the bill also would promise long-term economic aid for the region once political stability is restored
sen. daniel evans, r-wash., who has opposed contra aid in the past, said he was supporting the latest proposal because it ``is the best way to ensure that (the peace talks) have some chance of success.''
action on further aid for the rebels has been stalled since march 3, when the house narrowly rejected a $30 million package of purely humanitarian aid. aid proponents saw the sandinista incursion into honduras as a new opportunity to revive interest in aid
meanwhile, abrams told reporters that american officials have been discussing with honduran president azcona the possibility of providing additional assistance to that country, in addition to the 3,200 troops already airlifted to palmerola air base near tegucigalpa
there are some other possibilities that we've discussed,'' abrams said, adding that the possibilities did not include additional troops. ``we do not have a formal request from president azcona as of this morning for any other form of assistance. obviously, if we get one we'll take it very seriously.''
baker said that if a request were received from honduras for troops to help repel nicaraguan forces, ``it would be most carefully considered and most deliberately considered. but i cannot tell you what decision the president would make under those circumstances.''
baker, interviewed on the syndicated television program, ``john mclaughlin's one on one,'' was asked at what point u.s. troops would enter action
i don't anticipate that will occur at all. i think that the honduran forces can handle that on their own, and i fully anticipate that either the nicaraguans will retire on their own or honduras will, as they say, encourage them to do that. but i do not expect american troops to be involved in any military operation there,'' he said
hatfield's proposal would permit u.s. military exercises in honduras, like the training mission which began thursday, only if congress has been notified a month in advance. troops could not be sent into combat without a declaration of war or a ``clear and present danger'' of attack on the united states or its citizens. it also would prohibit any increase in the permanent u.s. military presence there
he said the administration's action amounted to ``sinking to the level of those in nicaragua who have no interest in peace.''
under the terms of this legislation we will not allow and will not tolerate sending american military personnel into combat in central america,'' hatfield said. ``it is not an option... we will not permit our young people to be used as pawns in this political game. and we will not push them down the slippery slope of intervention as we pushed their fathers and brothers down that slope into vietnam.''
general motors president robert stempel on friday introduced a new car steering wheel designed to move with the driver on impact and reduce injury in car crashes
stempel told a conference of 1,000 road safety activists that the steering wheel remains ``a primary source of injury in the event of a crash,'' despite the collapsible steering column developed 20 years ago
the new steering wheel has an energy-absorbing hub, the point where the wheel meets the steering column. at this juncture in the new wheel, six metal joints are designed to fold on impact and enable the wheel to move parallel to the driver's chest. this allows the wheel to rest against the body and move with it
that helps spread the force of the impact and reduces chest injuries,'' stempel said
tests showed the new steering wheel also lessened injuries to the abdomen and the face when those were the points of impact, he said
the new wheel will make its debut next year in the chevrolet cavalier and will be phased in on other models not equipped with air bags
stempel used the occasion to encourage the wearing of seatbelts, especially in massachusetts where a seatbelt law was repealed. thirty-two states require motorists to wear seatbelts
he also urged motorists to pay better attention to pedestrians and motorcyclists, who comprise one quarter of the annual road death toll
the three-day national conference, called lifesavers, is the sixth annual meeting of safety experts, state and city officials, car makers and dealers, and representatives from the insurance industry and law enforcement. ``according to;'' adds 4 grafs at end with stastus of request, right to pension after conviction</note>
lt. col. oliver north, the fired national security aide facing trial in the iran-contra affair, announced friday he has asked to retire from the marine corps and said he may subpoena ``the highest-ranking officials in our government'' as part of his defense
north submitted his request on thursday, asking that he be allowed to retire effective may 1 when he will have completed 20 years of active military service, pentagon sources said
that is the minimum amount of service required to retire with a pension. with 20 years of service, north is entitled to a pension totaling 50 percent of his base monthly pay, or slightly over $22,000 a year
in a statement read in the office of his attorney, brendan sullivan, north said the lawyer ``has informed me that the defense against these charges may require him to issue subpoenas for the testimony and records of the highest ranking officials in our government.''
that strikes me as a course of action incompatible with my continued service as a marine officer,'' he continued. ``accordingly, with great sadness, i have tendered my request to retire from the marine corps.''
north, who wopre a civilian busines suit in place of his usual ribbon-bedecked marine uniform, refused an answer questions after reading the statement
according to one official, who agreed to discuss the matter only if not identified, north has available a substantial amount of accumulated leave and probably will stop working as a staff officer at marine corps headquarters pending his retirement
north was reassigned to headquarters in november 1986 after president reagan fired him as an aide to the national security council
the sources said there was nothing to block approval of north's retirement request
they noted that rear adm. john poindexter, north's former boss and reagan's former national security adviser, exercised his right to retire from the navy late last year
north, poindexter and two others were indicted by a federal grand jury wednesday on charges they conspired to divert iranian arms sales profits to the nicaraguan contra rebels
the 23-count indictment, which also named retired air force maj. gen. richard v. secord and his business partner, albert hakim, said the defendants organized, directed and concealed ``a program to continue funding of and logistical and other support for military and paramilitary operations in nicaragua by the contras'' at a time u.s. law barred such action
north vowed after the indictment was returned to fight the charges, declaring: ``i did not commit any crime.''
north, a much-decorated combat veteran of vietnam and graduate of the u.s. naval academy, testified last year before congress that he always believed he had the approval of his superiors to take the actions he did
poindexter, during his testimony before congress, said he never informed the president of his decision to divert arms sale profits
the 44-year-old north is currently drawing a base pay of $3,693.60 per month. under military retirement rules, he will be entitled to half that _ or slightly more than $22,000 a year
according to one source, north was technically required to provide the marine corps with four months' advance notice before retiring. the service is unlikely to balk, however, at granting him a waiver of that advance-notice requirement, the source added
one pentagon official said gen. alfred m. gray, the marine corps commandant, had already approved north's request and that it was now awaiting only the approval of the navy secretary's office
and that should come on monday,'' said the source. ``this is all very routine.''
according to the defense department, the pension rights of north and poindexter are unlikely to be affected by the outcome of the legal cases against them since both men served honorably for at least 20 years
generally speaking, a conviction does not affect eligibility for a military pension,'' said col. david shea, a pentagon spokesman
morton thiokol officials said thursday that if five employees killed in fire while loading an mx missile motor with fuel had followed company policy, they would be alive today
they said the crew ignored strict company rules and entered the building during a phase of the operation that should have been handled by remote control from a bunker a quarter of a mile away
we don't know why the people were in the building. by procedure, they should not have been there. we have not been able to come up with a reason ... we just don't know,'' said robert lindstrom, a former nasa executive who directed thiokol's internal investigation of the dec. 29 fire
however, in response to a question, lindstrom said it was possible that the crew had complied with procedures
lindstrom said the company's probe resulted in the same conclusion reached by an air force investigation, namely that the explosive fire which burned 100,000 pounds of solid propellant and destroyed the building was ignited by either a spark of static electricity or heat from friction
the air force conclusions were expected to be released shortly
on wednesday, the utah division of occupational safety and health cited the defense contractor for six safety violations and imposed a $31,700 fine. the victims' presence in the building and failure to use remote-control equipment were among the most serious violations alleged by the agency, which characterized three of them as willful and serious
phillip r. dykstra, vice president of strategic operations for morton thiokol, said the state's contention that management knew that crews occasionally were present during restricted operations was not supported by facts
it's not true,'' dykstra said. ``our investigation shows no one was aware that occasionally (procedures) had been violated..''
lindstrom said that during interviews with numerous employees, one or two said crews had gone into buildings in violation of safety rules. he said investigators did not pursue that issue because their charge was only to find the cause of the fire
dykstra contested uosh's classification of the three violations as willful, although the facts supporting the citations were true. he said the company ``will avail itself of every legal avenue to challenge these citations,'' a procedure which involves appeal to the independent utah uosh review commission
the workers were withdrawing the core from a casting of the first stage of an mx missile when the solid fuel ignited. the blaze caused $6.2 million in damage to the building at the company's wasatch operations plant 25 miles west of brigham city
morton thiokol makes the missile's four stages, and the space shuttle's solid-fuel rocket boosters, one of which failed when the challenger blew up in january 1986
the fire has held up production of the mx missile until the cause and corrective measures could be determined. ed garrison, president of the company's aerospace group, said morton thiokol hopes to reach an agreement on corrective measures with the air force within two weeks
he said those measures include removing the teflon-coated steel core at a slower rate to reduce friction, verification that the motor is properly grounded to prevent buildup of static electricity, and installation of instruments to monitor static electricity
the cores, or forms, are removed after the propellant has been poured into the casing and allowed to harden
the state agency alleged that the missile motor was not properly grounded during the operation, though lindstrom said the previous shift had grounded the missile correctly. because of extensive fire damage, it was impossible to know whether the grounding had remained intact, he said
however, he said static electricity can build up even when there is proper grounding
it takes up to four hours to remove the 60-inch core from the casing. after the initial phase, in which the core is lifted about 30 inches, crews are authorized to enter the building to remove a hydraulic lift and attach the core to a crane that completes the procedure
responding to a question, lindstrom said it was possible the workers had completed the first phase of their task and were in the building to change the equipment. if so, they were following company policy
government radio condemned border air raids by honduras, which it said struck inside nicaragua, and exhorted listeners friday against ``american imperialism and the threat of military intervention.''
a headline in barricada, the sandinista newspaper, said: ``the order of the day: intensify combat.''
honduras said the raids thursday were confined to its own territory, aimed at nicaraguan soldiers it said crossed the frontier the day before in pursuit of contra rebels
the sandinista government continued with plans for cease-fire talks with the contras next monday, but the u.s.-supported rebels were considering a boycott
cease-fires in the region's civil wars, and a ban on the use of one country's territory for attacks on another, are provisions of the peace plan signed aug. 7 by five central american presidents
nicaragua said it had called off its offensive to roust contras from camps along the honduran border wednesday but was maintaining combat positions
although the defense ministry said none of the soldiers entered honduras, a nicaraguan military source indicated privately that they had
honduran officials and the reagan administration say sandinista soldiers crossed the rugged, ill-defined border about 175 miles from managua
on thursday, the united states started flying 3,200 soldiers of the 82nd airborne division and 7th light infantry to honduras in a show of support. defense secretary said they would be on a training exercise there for 10 days but would stay out of combat
president daniel ortega said nicaraguan troops would take on the americans if necessary
he hedged the question of whether nicaraguan soldiers crossed the coco river in the isolated northern region, as he has when previous incursions were reported
here the question is not if army troops penetrated honduran territory or not, but that we have dozens of camps of mercenary forces in honduran territory ... tolerated by the honduran government,'' he said thursday
honduran warplanes bombed the bocay border region, where nicaragua's northern military headquarters is located. the honduran government said a soviet-supplied nicaraguan helicopter was destroyed but the defense ministry denied the claim
journalists taken to the area earlier thursday saw and felt a bomb explode at the confluence of the bocay and coco rivers. lt. col. javier carrion, commander of the offensive against the contras, said two bombs fell in nicaraguan territory and one on the honduran side
carrion told reporters in a jungle clearing at san andres de bocay that 4,500 soldiers were involved in the sweep through an area running from central nicaragua to the frontier. he said they had air support from soviet-supplied helicopter gunships and an-26 propeller-driven planes carrying bombs
he said sandinista troops had killed 92 contras and wounded 300, at the cost of 34 soldiers dead and 68 wounded
the colonel said the purpose was to destroy contra bases in the border area, which is about 40 miles from an important mining region the rebels attacked in december
honduras said about 2,000 nicaraguan soldiers crossed the border, and a high-ranking military officer said about half of them still were there friday. minorities</head>
twenty years after the kerner commission accused the news media of looking at the world ``with white men's eyes,'' newspapers and broadcast stations still are not hiring or promoting enough blacks, a group of black journalists said friday
despite some industry attempts to improve black employment prospects, ``what has resulted in far too many instances can simply be characterized as a lot of motion and little movement,'' the group's report said
the national association of black journalists formed a panel to compare the status of blacks in journalism today with 20 years ago, when race riots prompted president johnson to appoint illinois gov. otto kerner to head the national advisory commission on civil disorders
the kerner commission conclusion that ``the journalistic profession has been shockingly backward in seeking out, hiring, training and promoting'' blacks ``still rings true,'' said dewayne wickham of the gannett news service, president of the nabj
the panel, which wickham said carried out its study over several months, acknowledged ``substantial good will'' among news media executives
but, wickham said: ``we also found there had not been a lot of progress. ... it would be wrong to stand here and say there has been no progress. it would be equally wrong to say it is significant.''
the panel's recommendations:
_newspaper publishers should promise to double the number of black journalists from 3.5 percent of newsroom employees to 7 percent by 1991
_newspaper and broadcast industry foundations should deny grants to college journalism programs ``which do not employ a single full-time black member, or which does not undertake a serious effort to recruit and retain black students.''
_the national association of broadcasters and the radio-television news directors association should join the nabj to form a task force to halt the decline in blacks working in television news. a declining number of black men employed in broadcast news caused the ratio of minority group members in the field to drop from 15 percent in 1979 to 13 percent in 1986, the panel said
believing there is a possible relationship between the deregulation of the broadcast industry and this sharp drop ... the nabj will monitor the compliance of television stations with existing (federal communications commission) regulations,'' the report said
where we are unsuccessful in bringing compliance through negotiations, the nabj will move aggressively to challenge the licenses of broadcast stations,'' it said
ernie schultz, president of the rtnda, said his group supported the report's recommendations ``100 percent.''
wickham said copies of the report also would be sent to the nab, the american society of newspaper editors and the american newspaper publishers association for comment
dwight ellis, nab vice president for minority services, said, ``blacks are losing ground in broadcasting. it's been documented.''
he said that although the reason for the decline was unclear, the nab and the news editors were considering two remedies: an advertising campaign to tell blacks about some of the less obvious jobs available in broadcasting, and creation of an institute to train minority group members for management
lee stinnett, executive director of the asne, said surveys show that the number of minority group members employed in newspaper newsrooms has more than doubled since 1978, rising from 1,700 to 3,600, or from 4 percent of the total to 6.5 percent, he said. slightly more than half the minority newspaper journalists are black, he said
federal regulators on friday pledged to protect all depositors and general creditors of the thrift unit of the troubled california-based financial corp. of america, the nation's second largest thrift holding company
the announcement by the federal home loan bank board came after the company's disclosure, in a report filed with the securities and exchange commission, that its thrift unit _ american savings &amp; loan association of stockton, calif. _ was insolvent under generally accepted accounting principles
the bank board's promise, designed to provide the ailing s&amp;l with stability and stem a drain of deposits, goes beyond its usual mandate of protecting deposit accounts up to $100,000
in the statement, the bank board also reaffirmed its support for the management of fca and american
fca, based in irvine, calif., said american's net worth _ the difference between assets and liabilities _ had fallen to negative $106 million at the end of the year, compared with positive $244.4 million on sept. 30
under less stringent regulatory accounting guidelines, its net worth was plus $69 million at the end of 1987, compared with $357.8 million at the end of the third quarter
fca had previously revealed that its net worth had fallen into the red, but this is the first disclosure that net worth at american, fca's main subsidiary, has fallen below the zero mark. that happened when american concluded that repayment of debts due from its parent company was not assured
fca's annual report, filed with the sec, also disclosed that american had a drain on deposits of $493 million during the first two months of this year. it attributed the drain to publicity about the bank's problems and said the drain eased during the first 10 days of march. deposits had totaled $17.1 billion at the end of the year
the drain was milder than the severe run at american in august and september of 1984, when the bank _ amid heavy operating losses _ lost about $6.8 billion of its $25 billion in deposits
the bank board's sister agency for commercial banks, the federal deposit insurance corp., issued a similar promise on thursday protecting all depositors and general creditors of first republicbank corp. of dallas, a bank holding company of about the same size as fca
however, the fdic went a step further than the bank board by pumping $1 billion into first republicbank
fca on feb. 23 asked the bank board for a $1.5 billion in assistance as soon as possible. karl hoyle, a bank board spokesman, said the request is under review
fca, with $33.7 billion in assets, ranks second among thrift companies only to h.f. ahmanson &amp; co., the los angeles-based parent of home savings of america
the bank board has tried unsuccessfully for nearly a year to find another institution willing to take over all or part of fca on terms that wouldn't be too costly to the federal savings and loan insurance corp., the bank board unit that insures deposits
on-again, off-again talks with the thrift unit of ford motor co. broke down early in january
because of its size, fca is the bank board's largest single problem institution, although the problems collectively of texas s&amp;ls are more severe
on jan. 27, fca reported a loss of $224.6 million in the last three months of last year, bringing its 1987 loss to $468 million
two weeks later, the bank board ordered it to sell off $2.5 billion in mortgage-backed securities to reduce its vulnerablity to interest rate fluctuations
on march 9, the bank board, which regulates about 3,150 s&amp;ls nationally, passed a resolution reassuring nervous wall street firms, which had loaned more than $12 billion to american in the form of reverse repurchase agreements. state of emergency in panama; picks up penultimate graf pvs bgng, `panama was'</note>
four american military police officers were arrested by panamanian authorities on thursday and held in custody for about 8{ hours, during which time they were ``verbally abused and made to stand for long periods of time,'' the pentagon said friday
the defense department said the four mps were on ``official duty'' at the time of their arrest in strife-torn panama city and were arrested without cause and held incognito
they were released late thursday night, but panamanian authorities continued friday to hold their cars, sidearms and flak jackets, the pentagon added
three members of the u.s. army south's military police command and one member of the oklahoma national guard were arrested at approximately 2:30 p.m. thursday while on official business in the vicinity of the hilton park hotel in panama city,'' the defense department said in a statement
the four were detained at panama defense forces facilities for several hours before being released into the custody of u.s. military authorities at approximately 11 p.m. the soldiers were in civilian clothes and were checking on the security of u.s. military families in government-leased quarters in the area who are affected by the lack of electrical, water and telephone service in parts of panama city.''
the government of gen. manuel antonio noriega, meanwhile, declared a national ``state of urgency'' friday that allows it to suspend individual freedoms. a decree said the action was taken because of ``a real situaion of undeclared war against the republic of panama'' by the united states and the domestic political opposition
capt. nancy laluntas, a pentagon spokeswoman, said the one national guardsman was a member of the 745th mp company who was on annual training in panama with the u.s. army south
the spokeswoman added the four were authorized to carry weapons beneath their civilian clothes and were carrying credentials that should have been honored. under the terms of the panama canal treaty, u.s. military authorities also should have been notified of the mps' arrest, she said
u.s. military authorities were not notified of the arrest by panama defense forces,'' laluntas said. ``and during their 8{ hours of being detained, the arrested soldiers asked repeatedly for permission to notify u.s. military authorities of their situation, and their requests were denied
the soldiers were also verbally abused (and) made to stand for long periods of time...,'' she said
the pentagon identified the four as pvt. 1st class tammy markley; pvt. 1st class richard virts; specialist 4 jerry williams, and staff sgt. danny felton, the national guardsman. the ages and hometowns of the four were not available
the pentagon statement was issued following a report in a panamanian newspaper friday. the newspaper critica said the four americans were arrested ``in an area where daily activities disturbing the public order'' had taken place
it said the four were carrying handguns, maps of the city and ``other military implements.''
panama was hit by power outages this week as electric company workers joined continuing protests against the government of military ruler gen. manuel antonio noriega
on wednesday the u.s. southern command placed the 10,000 american troops and their dependents stationed in panama on the highest alert status when panama's police chief, col. leonidas macias, led an unsuccessful coup attempt against noriega
a 19-member u.s. delegation selected by president reagan is heading to el salvador this weekend to monitor legislative and municipal elections that leftist guerrillas have threatened to disrupt with violence, officials said friday
the president strongly supports the people of el salvador and their democratic aspirations and is demonstrating this support by sending this delegation,'' white house spokesman marlin fitzwater said
a delegation member, rep. john g. rowland, r-conn., said, ``our presence there is mainly one to deter any fraud (by the participating political parties) and to objectively and fairly report what we see happening.''
andy fisher, an aide to sen. richard g. lugar, r-ind., said the delegation will visit polling places in san salvador and the countryside despite the pinpointing of the polls as military targets by the leftist forces
the delegation, headed by lugar and rep. john p. murtha, d-pa., was scheduled to leave andrews air force base saturday morning and return late sunday night or early monday morning
the u.s.-backed salvadoran government of president jose napoleon duarte is holding elections sunday for mayors and councils in the country's 262 municipalities and for all 60 seats in the legislative assembly
leftist groups have vowed to obstruct road transportation during the elections to disrupt voting, and said polling places will be ``military objectives.'' the rebels maintain that peace must be achieved before any election is held
the main electoral opposition to the ruling christian democratic party is arena, a rightist group
this particular election is a test for democracy, not only because of the hazards proposed by the rebels, but perhaps because many citizens of el salvador, after five elections, have lost some of their enthusiasm for democracy,'' lugar said in a statement
the delegation will be briefed by state department officials in san salvador before monitoring the elections
additional members of congress in the delegation are sen. christopher bond, r-mo.; rep. mickey edwards, r-okla.; rep. john kasich, r-ohio; rep. beverly byron, d-md.; and rep. alan mollohan, d-w. va
other members of the delegation are howard penniman, an elections expert with the american enterprise institute; mario paredes, executive director of the northwest regional center for hispanics in new york; merom brachman, retired chairman of the ohio ethics commission;
eugenia kemble, executive director of the free trade union institute; susan kaufman-purcell, council on foreign relations, new york; john white, former democratic national chairman; devier pierson of pierson semmes and finley, a washington law firm;
james dyer, deputy assistant to the president; edwin g. corr, u.s. ambassador to el salvador; fritz korth, international foundation for electoral systems, an advisory member; and betsy warren, principal deputy assistant secretary of state for legislation
here is a transcript of the announcement friday by lt. col. oliver north, who is facing trial in the iran-contra case, on his request to retire from the marine corps
there have been many inquiries this afternoon regarding a story, apparently out of the pentagon, about my status in the marine corps
and i would like to clarify the situation at this time
i love the united states marine corps, and the courageous brothers in arms that i have served with over the past 20 years
since graduating from the united states naval academy, my goal has simply been to serve our country as a marine for as long as possible
unfortunately, the indictment delivered two days ago places me in a situation where my continued service would be inconsistent with preparing and presenting a vigorous defense against these unfounded charges
my attorney, brendan sullivan, has informed me that the defense against these charges may require him to issue subpoenas for the testimony and records of the highest-ranking officials of our government
that strikes me as a course of action incompatible with my continued service as a marine officer
accordingly, with great sadness, i have tendered my request to retire from the marine corps
for over 16 months, i have silently endured a torrent of media speculation, as the largest investigation in the history of our country has probed every aspect of my personal and professional life, and that of my family
i have not responded, except when required by law during the course of the congressional hearings last summer
further silence is a disservice to me, my family, and the brave people i have served and worked with on matters of great importance to our country
moreover, while on active duty, i am not fully free to speak out or to take other actions which may be necessary
the months ahead will be difficult, and i recognize that fighting a prosecutor with an unlimited budget, an enormous staff, is a formidable and costly task for me and my counsel
my family and i continue to take heart from the overwhelming expressions of love and concern and encouragement by countless freedom-loving people
we are extremely grateful
your prayers and support have helped us to endure this ordeal in washington
i thank you
god bless you
semper fidelis
thank you
museum curators, history buffs and urban cowboys bought up the biggest collection of william f. ``buffalo bill'' cody memorabilia ever auctioned friday, including a silver-trimmed rifle that brought $22,500
the collection, sold at butterfield &amp; butterfield, consisted of more than 300 items originally preserved by cody's sister, julia cody goodman
a pair of chaps worn by the pony express rider, indian fighter, buffalo hunter, army scout and showman sold for $1,400, and a rope lariat went for $500
a silver-handled plains rifle fetched $22,500. other items included cody's buffalo-hide coat and his silver-handled toothbrush
who better symbolizes the american west than buffalo bill?'' asked r.l. wilson, historical consultant to colt firearms co. of hartford, conn. he came to bid on a single-action colt revolver, one of eight guns in the collection
the collection was sold by greg martin, a san francisco gun collector and history buff who bought the artifacts for $300,000 last year in billings, mont. he had wanted to buy only a shotgun inscribed to cody, but had to buy the whole lot to get the shotgun from the elderly owner
rival bidders eyeing each other across the auction floor included curator paul fees of the buffalo bill museum in cody, wyo., and thomas b. morrison of the buffalo bill ranch historic park in north platte, neb
they vied for a collection of letters to cody's sister discussing his marriage, the death of his son and other intimate events
we are interested in the correspondence because it is so revealing and personal,'' said fees. ``we have a strong biographical interest.''
the collection was unique for its large number of personal items, including a tomahawk from his friend d.f. ``white beaver'' powell and dozens of photographs, show bills and theater tickets chronicling cody's life as the roughrider who along with shooting champion w. ``doc'' carver founded the first wild west show
carl otis, owner of pawnee bill's wild west exposition re-enacted, a northern california traveling show, dressed in white stetson hat and buckskin jacket for the occasion. he bid $3,000 on a smith &amp; wesson ivory-handled revolver used in cody's wild west show but the gun went for $9,000
private collector george kramer, a new jersey real estate developer, hoped to buy cody's silver riding bit for his 80-year-old father, who still rides. but he bid first on cody's winchester rifle, inscribed and hand-carved with buffalo
that's the one item i wanted most,'' said kramer, who successfully bid $11,000 for it. discussed</head> with administration response to aid package. picks up 13th graf pvs bgng: sen. daniel ...</note>
a bipartisan group of senators proposed a $48 million package of new aid to nicaragua's contra rebels friday, including renewed authority for the cia to deliver previously stockpiled weapons
as u.s. troops continued to arrive in honduras in a show of force, assistant secretary of state elliott abrams said additional assistance was being discussed with honduran president jose azcona, in response to a reported nicaraguan incursion
white house chief of staff howard baker said president reagan would give ``most careful'' consideration to any request from honduras for troops to help repel nicaraguan forces, although he reiterated that u.s. troops were not expected to be involved in any military operation in the region
one of the senate's leading peace advocates, sen. mark o. hatfield, said the sending of u.s. troops amounted merely to ``matching stupidity with stupidity'' and introduced legislation barring the troops from a combat role without permission from congress
sponsors of the new contra aid proposal said they hoped it would revive negotiations in congress and with the reagan administration on an aid package that could be quickly enacted to replace supplies lost or expended during the past week's heavy fighting along the nicaraguan-honduran border
but the extent of the damage inflicted on the rebels by the sandinista incursion remained unclear. sen. david boren, d-okla., chairman of the senate intelligence committee, said the nicaraguan troops were withdrawing without accomplishing all their objectives
we think it's very important right now to send a signal to the sandinista government'' which allegedly crossed the border into honduras in an effort to destroy rebel camps and supplies, boren said
sen. nancy kassebaum, r-kan., said announcement of the package also would strengthen the contras as they enter direct cease-fire talks with the managua regime, scheduled for monday. ``this is a common-sense, moderate and reasoned approach,'' she said
the proposal would use $48 million in unspent pentagon money to buy food, clothing, shelter and medical supplies, and to transport it to troops in the field, over the next year. about $3 million of that amount would go for communications gear
but in what promised to be a controversial provision, the package would allow the cia to airdrop ammunition and weapons previously stockpiled by the rebels to troops in the field. boren said the rebels still have $2 million to $5 million worth of undelivered supplies, about half of them lethal
and it would give president reagan the right to hold a quick, guaranteed vote in congress on any request for further military aid under certain conditions if the peace talks between the sandinistas and contras break down
as a ``carrot,'' the bill also would promise long-term economic aid for the region once political stability is restored
an administration official, speaking on condition he not be identified, said of the new aid package, ``we are encouraged from reports we have heard about it, but we will have to wait until we have the actual details.''
sen. daniel evans, r-wash., who has opposed contra aid in the past, said he was supporting the latest proposal because it ``is the best way to ensure that (the peace talks) have some chance of success.''
action on further aid for the rebels has been stalled since march 3, when the house narrowly rejected a $30 million package of purely humanitarian aid. aid proponents saw the sandinista incursion into honduras as a new opportunity to revive interest in aid
meanwhile, abrams told reporters that american officials have been discussing with honduran president azcona the possibility of providing additional assistance to that country, in addition to the 3,200 troops already airlifted to palmerola air base near tegucigalpa
there are some other possibilities that we've discussed,'' abrams said, adding that the possibilities did not include additional troops. ``we do not have a formal request from president azcona as of this morning for any other form of assistance. obviously, if we get one we'll take it very seriously.''
baker said that if a request were received from honduras for troops to help repel nicaraguan forces, ``it would be most carefully considered and most deliberately considered. but i cannot tell you what decision the president would make under those circumstances.''
baker, interviewed on the syndicated television program, ``john mclaughlin's one on one,'' was asked at what point u.s. troops would enter action
i don't anticipate that will occur at all. i think that the honduran forces can handle that on their own, and i fully anticipate that either the nicaraguans will retire on their own or honduras will, as they say, encourage them to do that. but i do not expect american troops to be involved in any military operation there,'' he said
hatfield's proposal would permit u.s. military exercises in honduras, like the training mission which began thursday, only if congress has been notified a month in advance. troops could not be sent into combat without a declaration of war or a ``clear and present danger'' of attack on the united states or its citizens. it also would prohibit any increase in the permanent u.s. military presence there
he said the administration's action amounted to ``sinking to the level of those in nicaragua who have no interest in peace.''
under the terms of this legislation we will not allow and will not tolerate sending american military personnel into combat in central america,'' hatfield said. ``it is not an option... we will not permit our young people to be used as pawns in this political game. and we will not push them down the slippery slope of intervention as we pushed their fathers and brothers down that slope into vietnam.''
partners in a new york banking firm that does business with the state of massachusetts have given money and helped raise more for the presidential bid of gov. michael dukakis, according to a published report friday
a dukakis campaign spokesman denied there was anything improper
michael del giudice, general partner in lazard freres and co., organized eight fund-raisers last june that raised $250,000 for the dukakis campaign, said the boston herald
and jonathan o'herron, a partner in the same firm, was co-host of a fund-raising dinner, also in june, that raised $25,000, the herald said
federal election commission records show del giudice gave the maximum contribution of $1,000 to dukakis, and o'herron and his wife each gave $500, the newspaper said
lazard freres was awarded a three-year contract jan. 7 to advise the state on fiscal management of construction of a third boston harbor tunnel and the depression of the central artery
i think it's ridiculous to suggest that there is any appearance of a conflict of interest,'' said campaign spokesman steve akey. ``there is absolutely no connection between contributions and contracts.''
akey said other members of the banking firm support different candidates. and he said it would be impractical for the campaign to refuse contributions from the thousands of individuals and companies that do business with the state or operate under state regulation
the subject of campaign finance has become a debating point between dukakis and a democratic rival, rep. richard gephardt of missouri
dukakis has faulted gephardt for taking money from political action committees, while noting that his own campaign rejects pac money and contributions from registered massachusetts lobbyists
gephardt has defended his nearly $300,000 in pac donations and persistently raised questions about dukakis' acceptance of contributions from anyone doing business with the state of massachusetts
israeli prime minister yitzhak shamir insisted friday that his country remains committed to seeking peace in the middle east despite his rebuff of a u.s. proposal for an international peace conference
israel cannot accept the proposal offered by secretary of state george shultz because such a gathering would give arab countries and the soviet union a chance to impose their will on israel, shamir said
however, israel remains open to direct talks with the arabs, the prime minister said
this approach is enshrined in the camp david accords, to which we remain committed,'' shamir said, referring to the settlement his country made with egypt in 1978 under u.s. auspices. ``they still provide a workable blueprint for resolving issues between us and our arab neighbors, including the palestinian arabs.''
the camp david agreement called for a period of limited self-rule for palestinians in the occupied territories
about 250 palestinians and their supporters demonstrated outside the century plaza hotel as shamir addressed 750 at a luncheon of the world affairs council
the chanting demonstrators carried signs protesting israeli troops' violent suppression of palestinian unrest in the west bank and gaza strip
about 20 members of the militant jewish defense league staged a counter-demonstration outside the hotel, but there were no confrontations, said police sgt. larry mckinley
in the occupied territories friday, israeli troops shot a protester to death and at least 25 others were injured in violence that erupted after moslem noon prayers. the death was the 101st since the unrest began 3{ months ago
shamir's likud bloc, which shares power with the more liberal labor party, rejects shultz' proposal for a conference including the permanent members of the u.n. security council. such a meeting would lead to demands that israel give up territory it has held since 1967 and considers vital to its defense, shamir said
the soviets have been pushing the idea because they know that within this framework they can push a settlement favorable to themselves and their syrian clients,'' he said
shamir, who arrived in los angeles on thursday after talks in washington with shultz, president reagan and congressional leaders, has sought to blunt criticism by some american jews of his country's action in the occupied territories
he reiterated that the picture of the palestinian riots in the occupied west bank and gaza strip has been distorted by the news media, and said americans shouldn't confuse the violence with u.s.-style civil rights activism
it is war. it is an extension of urban terrorism,'' he said, defending his troops' use of rubber bullets, beatings and live ammunition
in answer to a question from the audience, shamir said he believed american jews continue to support israel despite the controversy
i don't see any changes,'' shamir said. ``i think the great majority of the jewish community in america supports the state of israel.'' markets</head>
president reagan on friday named treasury secretary james a. baker iii to head a working group to coordinate recommendations for altering the government's regulation of financial markets
the group was appointed under a presidential order after nicholas f. brady, head of reagan's task force on the oct. 19 stock market crash, told congress on thursday that a repeat of that event could occur unless the government's regulatory authorities are put under one roof
brady's commission earlier had called for making the federal reserve board a ``super regulator'' with authority over both the securities and exchange commission and the commodities futures trading commission in regulating financial markets
but that idea has been rejected by the heads of all three agencies
federal reserve chairman alan greenspan has said he doesn't want the added authority. and a turf fight has erupted between sec chairman david ruder and the cftc's new chairwoman, wendy gramm, over which agency should regulate stock index futures
the sec has blamed trading in stock index futures for worsening the october crash, which saw the dow jones average of 30 industrial stocks fall more than 500 points in one day
ruder has suggested that regulation of trading in index futures be transferred from the cftc to his agency, an idea opposed by both gramm and brady
commodity exchanges where the futures are traded and the cftc have maintained that activity on the index futures markets oct. 19 had no affect on the severity of the collapse in stock prices
named with baker to the working group were greenspan, ruder and gramm plus the five other governors now on the federal reserve's board and four other members each from the sec and cftc
reagan gave the group 60 days to report back to him on any progress in ironing out their differences and coming up with recommended legislation
the goals are two-fold,'' said white house spokesman marlin fitzwater. ``first, to ensure the continued integrity, competitiveness and efficiency of our nation's financial markets and, second, to maintain the public's confidence in those markets.''
specifically, the panel was told to look at the desirability of a ``tie-breaking referee'' with emergency powers and more formal inter-maket coordination and cooperation mechanisms among the three agencies
it also was told to examine the adequacy of private sector capital for futures floor traders, market makers and broker-dealers and whether margin requirements need to be strengthened and ``harmonized.''
other issues the panel was told to explore include the desirability of simultaneous trading halts in all markets to clear transactions, imposition of price limits on stocks, index futures and options, emergency measures to restrict large, rapid liquidations and revising equity short-sale rules
none of them is simple,'' fitzwater said of the issues, `and, while deserving high priority, may not be resolved quickly or without considerable reflection.''
snow fell across a wide area of the east on friday and much of the nation's northern half had unseasonably low temperatures just two days before spring
light snow extended from kentucky across west virginia and ohio into pennsylvania and new york
snow advisories were posted in parts of northern kentucky, mountainous areas of pennsylvania, and the northern mountains of north carolina
rain showers extended from there to the gulf coast, scattered in most areas but numerous in alabama, georgia and florida
temperatures were in the 30s and 40s east of the rockies, except for the southeast, where it was warmer, and northern and central minnesota across to upper michigan, where early afternoon readings were in the 20s
temperatures around the nation at 2 p.m. est ranged from 21 degrees at marquette, mich., to 82 degrees at thermal, calif. the morning low for the nation was 8 degrees below zero at gunnison, colo
the forecast for saturday called for showers and thunderstorms in florida; snow from new england to the great lakes region; rain and snow from indiana to new jersey; rain from maryland and west virginia to eastern south carolina, and scattered showers across washington state and western oregon
temperatures will remain below 40 degrees from eastern montana through the great lakes region and northern ohio valley to new england, including highs in the 20s and upper teens from eastern north dakota through the upper half of michigan. highs above 60 degrees were forecast from the coast of oregon and northern california through the southern plains to northern florida; in the 70s across southern florida; in the 70s to low 80s from southern and central california to southwestern new mexico, and the 40s and 50s across most of the rest of the nation. with north comments on breaking silence, bodyguard's warning to reporters. picks up 7th graf pvs bgng: according to ...</note>
lt. col. oliver north, the fired national security aide facing trial in the iran-contra affair, announced friday he has asked to retire from the marine corps and said he may subpoena ``the highest-ranking officials in our government'' as part of his defense
north submitted his request on thursday, asking that he be allowed to retire effective may 1 when he will have completed 20 years of active military service, pentagon sources said
that is the minimum amount of service required to retire with a pension. with 20 years of service, north is entitled to a pension totaling 50 percent of his base monthly pay, or slightly over $22,000 a year
in a statement read in the office of his attorney, brendan sullivan, north said the lawyer ``has informed me that the defense against these charges may require him to issue subpoenas for the testimony and records of the highest ranking officials in our government.''
that strikes me as a course of action incompatible with my continued service as a marine officer,'' he continued. ``accordingly, with great sadness, i have tendered my request to retire from the marine corps.''
north, who wore a civilian business suit in place of his usual ribbon-bedecked marine uniform, refused to answer questions after reading the statement
north said he has ``silently endured a torrent of media speculation'' during 16 months of iran-contra investigations. he said he had not responded ``except when required by law,'' and that ``further silence is a disservice.''
while on active duty, i am not fully free to speak out or to take other actions which may be necessary,'' north said
a man, apparently a private security guard, controlled the access of reporters and photographers to the room where north read his statement. before north entered, the guard told the press to ``keep your hands out of your pockets'' and to make no ``quick moves.''
according to one official, who agreed to discuss the matter only if not identified, north has available a substantial amount of accumulated leave and probably will stop working as a staff officer at marine corps headquarters pending his retirement
north was reassigned to headquarters in november 1986 after president reagan fired him as an aide to the national security council
the sources said there was nothing to block approval of north's retirement request
they noted that rear adm. john poindexter, north's former boss and reagan's former national security adviser, exercised his right to retire from the navy late last year
north, poindexter and two others were indicted by a federal grand jury wednesday on charges they conspired to divert iranian arms sales profits to the nicaraguan contra rebels
the 23-count indictment, which also named retired air force maj. gen. richard v. secord and his business partner, albert hakim, said the defendants organized, directed and concealed ``a program to continue funding of and logistical and other support for military and paramilitary operations in nicaragua by the contras'' at a time u.s. law barred such action
north vowed after the indictment was returned to fight the charges, declaring: ``i did not commit any crime.''
north, a much-decorated combat veteran of vietnam and graduate of the u.s. naval academy, testified last year before congress that he always believed he had the approval of his superiors to take the actions he did
poindexter, during his testimony before congress, said he never informed the president of his decision to divert arms sale profits
the 44-year-old north is currently drawing a base pay of $3,693.60 per month. under military retirement rules, he will be entitled to half that _ or slightly more than $22,000 a year
according to one source, north was technically required to provide the marine corps with four months' advance notice before retiring. the service is unlikely to balk, however, at granting him a waiver of that advance-notice requirement, the source added
one pentagon official said gen. alfred m. gray, the marine corps commandant, had already approved north's request and that it was now awaiting only the approval of the navy secretary's office
and that should come on monday,'' said the source. ``this is all very routine.''
according to the defense department, the pension rights of north and poindexter are unlikely to be affected by the outcome of the legal cases against them since both men served honorably for at least 20 years
generally speaking, a conviction does not affect eligibility for a military pension,'' said col. david shea, a pentagon spokesman
some republican activists said friday they will fight to keep this year's gop presidential campaign platform true to conservative principles
they insisted their fight is not an effort to stop vice president george bush, the front-runner in the gop presidential race
the group seeking to ``save the reagan platform'' is spearheaded by the american conservative union and donald devine, who recently was ousted from a top post in sen. bob dole's lagging presidential campaign
this is not a stop-bush campaign,'' devine told a news conference
but he repeatedly criticized a speech the vice president gave in chicago last week in which bush promised a bush administration would press for a tough new code of ethics for government officials
our purpose is to promote an agenda the republican party can win on,'' said devine, who was president reagan's director of the office of personnel management from 1981 to 1985
to win in november, bush must galvanize the support of republican activists who are overwhelmingly conservative, not shift his policies toward the center, devine and other conservative leaders said
daniel graham, a retired air force lieutenant general who heads high frontier, a group pressing for development of the strategic defense initiative, said the republican party must take a strong stand against cuts in the pentagon budget
l. brent bozell iii, chairman of the conservative victory committee, said the republican platform ``must reaffirm that the party is committed to the elimination of the ruthless marxist regime in nicaragua.''
devine said efforts will be made to raise money for a delegate-tracking system ``to identify the conservatives'' and represent their views at the convention in new orleans in august
bush, in a speech to the governor's club in chicago, had said he was ``personally disturbed at the breaches of ethics i have seen in the past few years in government.'' he said he would appoint an ethics panel in the white house to draft a new code of ethics
devine said bush shouldn't have started ``talking about something unnecessarily critical of ronald reagan.''
i would think that a stronger ethics in government act is one that provided less discretion to independent prosecutors or permanent prosecutors to make up charges,'' said devine. ``we have an ethics in government act that says the appearance of a conflict of interest is a felony. now that's preposterous.''
bozell also criticized the reagan administration's intermediate-range nuclear forces treaty with the soviet union and claimed it has weakened support for anti-communist rebels in afghanistan and angola
we're affirming the 1980 republican platform, which is unfortunately a far cry sometimes from the 1988 adminstration,'' said bozell
asked where conservatives could turn if they don't prevail on the gop platform, devine said: ``stay home.''
some conservatives believe they would be better off if they relinquished the white house this year to a liberal democrat such as massachusetts gov. michael dukakis and reclaimed it in 1992, he said
rescue workers on friday removed remains of the 138 people who died when an avianca jetliner slammed into an andean peak, burst into flames and started a landslide
a bogota newspaper, quoting an avianca executive, reported friday that the boeing 727-100 hit the mountain after it swerved to avoid a collision with with another avianca plane
but another company official said the cause of the crash had not been determined
no americans were reported on the domestic flight
witnesses said the plane clipped trees before slamming into the mountainside thursday near zulia, 50 miles north of cucuta, where it had taken off
a police inspector in nearby campo alicia, augusto bautista, said the impact ``opened a hole that looked like a crater in a volcano.''
col. miguel benedetti, civil defense director for the state of north santander, said thursday night that there were no survivors. the government and avianca said there were 131 passengers and seven crew members aboard. both had given different figures earlier
the government said it had begun an investigation but recovery personnel had not yet located the plane's ``black box,'' which could provide clues to the cause of the crash
this tragedy has saddened many colombian homes,'' president virgilio barco said in a thursday night speech on television
the plane took off from cucuta, 250 miles northeast of bogota, and was to stop at the caribbean ports of barranquilla and cartegena
rain, snow and rough terrain hampered rescue efforts thursday. civil aeronautics agency officials said that work crews, some using helicopters, returned to the crash site friday
bautista said the remains of the victims were scattered and many passengers had been buried by a landslide touched off by the jet
it's not possible to recognize anyone,'' he said
police, civil defense workers, red cross members and local residents placed bodies in plastic bags and loaded them on helicopters headed for cucuta
the bogota daily ``el siglo'' on friday quoted raul garcia, an avianca vice president, as saying that the pilot had swerved ``to avoid a collision'' with another avianca jet flying from bogota to cucuta
garcia was quoted as saying the two pilots communicated by radio before the accident and that the second plane landed safely shortly after the crash
he did not return phone calls to his office friday
airport officials at cucuta would not comment
but jairo mejia, avianca's director of operations, told the newspaper ``we can't give too much credibility to speculation'' and said the cause of the crash had not been determined
local residents said the plane appeared to be flying low before it slammed into 8,000-foot la cuchilla peak
however, the operator of the control tower at cucuta's airport, ivan robayo, said the plane was flying normally and had not reported any trouble
the pilot said he was climbing to 26,000 feet and soon after that i lost radio contact with him,'' robayo said
the agency said the passenger list included monsignor horacio olave velandia, 44, the roman catholic auxiliary bishop of tibu, and at least 31 soccer players from two teams flying to a tournament in cartagena
the soccer teams were affiliated with the state petroleum company ecopetrol
colombia's last major air crash occurred july 27, 1985, when an air force transport plane went down in the amazon jungle, killing 74 people. the military plane was carrying civilian passengers because of an airline strike
an 84-year-old jeweler, threatened at knifepoint by two men, led them to a cache of diamonds then pulled a gun and shot one of them
the wounded man was quickly arrested. the other man was arrested the next day because the jeweler knew him and showed police where he lived, said the jeweler, lou marks
police said they doubt marks would be charged in the shooting, in which one robber was wounded in the chest and neck
marks' daughter, mrs. marion macri, 59, who lives with him, said the incident began wednesday night with a knock on the door. her father opened the door
two men forced their way in, threw marks to the floor and told mrs. macri to get down as well. they took $68 in cash from marks and about $20 from mrs. macri's purse. then marks, who sells jewelry from his home, tricked them
i've got a lot of jewelry you can have. take it and go,'' marks said he told them. ``when i said: `follow me, i'll show you my diamonds,' i knew i was halfway home.''
marks on thursday said he led them into his den. while they looked at the jewels, he grabbed a .32-caliber gun he had owned for 20 years and never fired, he said
i said, `lord, please let the gun be loaded' and it was,'' he said. ``when i put my finger on that gun, i said, `dear lord you have saved my life,' and i shot him point-blank. i let him have it, right in the chest.''
marks shot at the other man but missed. both men fled
i don't feel a bit of remorse,'' he said. ``they weren't going to let me live.''
raymond edward sumther, 39, was under police guard friday at bayfront medical center. he was charged with armed burglary assault, police spokesman george pickney said
gary glover, 30, was arrested thursday on the same charge and was being held on $15,000 bail, pinckney said
marks had led police to glover, whom he said he had once fed. the jeweler went to a motel where glover often stayed, and when marks saw him he called police
you befriend a man and then he comes back six months later and does this,'' marks said. change number of ships reported attacked to five; picks up 2nd graf pvs, ``iran said ...; corrects name of tanker to kyrenicos in 10th graf, ``iranian gunboats ...; inserts one graf after 15th pvs bgng: according to iraqi... with details.</note>
iran and iraq reported firing 41 missiles into each other's cities friday and said their warplanes and gunships attacked five ships in one of the fiercest spasms of fighting in the gulf war in the past year
communiques from both sides said seven jet fighters were shot down and iran claimed thousands of iraqis slain in a northern offensive
iran said its forces had captured two towns in a 5-day-old drive into northeastern iraq, in which it claims 9,200 iraqis have been killed or wounded and 4,000 taken prisoner. it said its forces had recaptured nowsud, an iranian border town
nowsud was overrun by iraqi soldiers soon after the war began in september 1980
dispatches from the official islamic republic news agency claimed five iraqi jets were destroyed in 24 hours, including three french-built f-1 mirage fighter-bombers out to raid iranian tankers in the northern persian gulf. iraq claimed two iranian jets downed
iraq acknowledged losing one plane, but iran did not admit losses
the official iraqi news agency, monitored in nicosia, said its planes carried out 254 sorties against iranian targets friday including a ``devastating raid'' on the northern city of tabriz
the news agency said air force planes evaded iranian fighter patrols and hit two ``large maritime targets,'' which usually means tankers, off iran between 9 p.m. thursday and 9 a.m. friday
lloyd's shipping intelligence unit in london confirmed one attack, on the iranian-chartered cypriot tanker kyrenicos. it said at least one missile hit the 80,137-ton vessel as it steamed south from iran's kharg island terminal with a full load before dawn friday
chartered and iranian-owned tankers shuttle oil for export from kharg, which has been a frequent target of iraqi bombing raids, to makeshift terminals in the safer waters of the southern gulf
iranian gunboats attacked three neutral ships in the southern gulf friday in apparent retaliation for the kyrenicos raid and two other confirmed iraqi attacks in recent days. there had been a monthlong lull in the ``tanker war,'' in which more than 400 ships have been hit since it began four years ago
shipping officials said a japanese seaman was killed on the panamanian tanker maria 2 in the first iranian raid soon after midnight and the other 20 crewmen, all south koreans, abandoned ship when a fire started. several were reported wounded, but all were rescued by the united arab emirates coast guard
an attack on the 284,494-ton norwegian tanker berge lord started a small fire and the 87,768-ton singapore-flag tanker neptune saburu also was hit. no casualties were reported in either case
irna, the iranian agency, said 24 missiles were fired late thursday and early friday into zubair, an industrial town in southern iraq, and haretha and shubair nearby
six short-range rockets were fired at the southern port of basra, khanaqin in the central border area, mosul in kurdistan and the northern frontier town of banmil, it said
according to iraqi dispatches, seven long-range missiles were launched at tehran. iran reported at least eight civilians killed and many wounded
baghdad radio announced two more iranian missiles struck the northern cities of mosul and kirkuk friday night. but tehran television announced two missiles were fired at each city in the attacks
iraq gave no report on its casualties from missile attacks
hundreds of civilians have been killed on both sides in the latest round of the intermittent ``war of the cities,'' which began feb. 29, and thousands have died since the conflict began
reports of artillery attacks and air raids on a dozen other cities, with heavy casualties, came from both sides
tehran said revolutionary guards pushing into the northern mountains friday overran the ``military towns'' of tawla, three miles north of nowsud, and byara a few miles farther north, killing or wounding 700 iraqis and capturing 200
war communiques claimed iranian forces had seized nearly 400 square miles of territory with a two-pronged offensive
according to irna, the drive was being led by soviet-made t-72 tanks captured from the iraqis when the iranians stormed the faw peninsula in southern iraq two years ago
it claimed iraqi warplanes dropped chemical bombs on dojaila and halabja, two northeastern towns captured thursday, ``killing many defenseless residents.''
a correspondent for the agency reported the two towns were ``in ruins,'' strewn with the bodies of civilians. he said the iraqis also dropped cluster and phosporous bombs that killed ``scores of people.''
the democratic party on friday added another delegate to the number attending this summer's national convention in atlanta, bringing the total to 4,163
mayor joseph riley of charleston, s.c., will attend as a representative of the national conference of democratic mayors
that seat had been held by detroit mayor coleman a. young, who also has claim to a delegate's seat because he is a member of the democratic national committee from michigan
under party rules, young could assign another mayor to take his seat to represent the mayors' conference, according to jim carey, executive director of the party's compliance assistance commission. washburn...</note>
richard gephardt promised friday to defend ``american jobs rather than foreign protectionism,'' and michael dukakis attacked president reagan's policy in central america as the two democratic presidential hopefuls pointed toward next week's michign showdown
vice president george bush, enjoying the status of near-nominee on the republican side, said reagan ``did the right thing'' when he dispatched combat troops to honduras. rival bob dole's campaign was reduced to skeletal remains with only about a dozen paid aides remaining
meanwhile, the man who directed president reagan's investigation into the iran-contra affair said he doubted the episode would damage vice president george bush's bid for the white house. ``i fully expect the opposition to use it on him,'' said former sen. john tower of texas, but he added the voters ``will tend to focus on the problems of the moment'' and not the past
the republican campaign was quiet, appropriately so for a race that has been all but wrapped up by bush
democrats were running full tilt, with caucuses, primaries and conventions in kansas, texas, puerto rico and south dakota this weekend offering 169 delegates, and the big 138-delegate michigan caucus showdown a week away
i'm the underdog today, but that doesn't really matter,'' gephardt said as he and 18 house democratic colleagues moved through michigan. ``i think you will see that the gephardt message about economic revival is going to get through to the michigan voters.''
dukakis, ahead in a new public poll as well as his own, countered with massachusetts sen. edward m. kennedy, who agreed to appear at labor rallies in two michigan cities. looking ahead to other staes, dukakis also picked up an endorsement from rep. sam gejdenson of connecticut. sources said he would receive one from rep. jim florio of new jersey on saturday
the governor divided his time between michigan and kansas during the day, and he hit hard against reagan's decision to airlift 3,200 combat troops to honduras. ``the whole policy in central america is illegal,'' he said. ``call back the troops and end this.''
he also criticized the idea of possible presidential pardons for oliver north and others indicted in the iran-contra affair on wednesday. but he said, ``i don't want to consider the political effects'' of the indictments
bush disagreed strongly with him on central america
we did the proper thing,'' he said in an interview with a puerto rico television station conducted by telephone. ``we are for freedom and democracy. there is no question that nicaragua invaded honduras.''
gephardt was focusing almost exclusively on michigan, which poses a make-or-break test for his faltering candidacy. he and dukakis already have begun airing television commercials in the state, even though the caucuses are a week away
campaigning in regions of the state where factories have closed in recent years, he said, ``it's time we had a president who defended american jobs rather than foreign protectionism. i reject the notion that in order to move some of us ahead, we must leave millions behind.''
jesse jackson won the endorsement of george sallade, who headed former candidate gary hart's michigan campaign in 1984 and again this year. sallade said he thought most of hart's supporters would follow suit. ``i expect the racists, if they exist, to be outnumbered next saturday,'' he said
sen. albert gore jr., of tennessee campaigned in puerto rico looking for support in sunday's primary. he said he would consider a request from the popular democratic party to exempt the commonwealth from federal minimum wage laws and said he favors letting puerto ricans decide whether to become a state
dole's campaign has been severely curtailed since tuesday's illinois primary defeat at the hands of bush. spokeswoman dale tate said only about 10 to 12 aides were left on the payroll, although several other officials were volunteering their services. the campaign once employed about 300 persons, she said
dole has vowed to stay in the race until the wisconsin primary on april 5, but ms. tate said the kansas senator was unlikely to air television commercials in connecticut, which votes on march 29
the other active challenger to bush, former television evangelist pat robertson, campaigned in california, where he proclaimed, ``there has to be a rallying point for conservatives.''
with bush holding an overwhelming lead in nominating delegates over his two rivals, most interest focused on the still murky democratic race
dukakis and jackson both spent time in kansas, which holds caucuses on saturday with 39 delegates at stake
at washburn university in topeka, jackson accused reagan of ``fighting psychological warfare with the congress, manipulating the public mind for more contra aid.''
gephardt also looked to translate his victory in last month's south dakota primary into delegates at a statewide convention on saturday. and dukakis and jackson, the two top finishers in the texas primary on march 8, looked to carve up most of the 64 delegates at the state's caucuses on saturday
the other campaign contest of the weekend is puerto rico's primary, with 51 delegates at stake
gephardt's campaign chartered two jets to ferry house members to michigan to campaign on his behalf. the missouri congressman ``is obviously a known quantity,'' said rep. john dingell, d-mich. ``we also know how he responds in a crisis. we in congress don't like weaklings or phonies.''
the other democrat in the race, sen. paul simon of illinois, is essentially conceding michigan to his rivals. he campaigned in pennsylvania during the day, where he criticized reagan's decision to send combat troops to honduras. ``i think, candidly, it was designed not to meet a military threat to honduras, but to try to line up some votes in the house and the senate for military aid to the contras. and i don't think it's going to work,'' he said
here are some comments friday by candidates for the presidency:

richard gephardt, on the michigan situation: ``i'm the underdog today, but that doesn't really matter. i think you will see that the gephardt message about economic revival is going to get through to the michigan voters.''

paul simon, taking a jab at his better-financed democratic rivals: ``if you're talking about buying the nomination, i can't do that. if you're talking about winning the nomination, i can do that.''

michael dukakis, on the reagan administration's actions in central america: ``the whole policy in central america is illegal. call back the troops and end this.''

pat robertson, saying he will stay in the gop race as a rallying point for conservatives: ``if everybody drops out, then whatever policies are being advocated by george bush will become the policies of the republican party.''

al gore, setting his sights on the presidency in 1988, not beyond: ``anybody who thinks i'm involved in a dress rehearsal will find out otherwise. i'm in this to win.'' paratroopers among last to arrive, not the last; picks up 4th pvs `the honduran and deletes outdated 20th graf `michael o'brien'</note>
the army began moving about 2,000 soldiers into the border jungles friday with orders to drive out a nicaraguan force of half that size
roughly 2,000 nicaraguan soldiers had been reported in the mountainous area thursday, the day after honduras said they crossed the frontier pursuing contra rebels. a ranking honduran officer said 1,000 of them remained on the honduran side friday
about 800 american paratroopers _ among the last to arrive of the 3,200 soldiers sent to honduras _ were dropped onto palmerola air base friday morning. the defense department says the u.s. forces will be in central america for a 10-day training exercise
gen. fred f. woerner, commander of the u.s. southern command based in panama, arrived to review the exercise and said it was ``a reassuring factor to our allies, not only in honduras but elsewhere.''
he said there were ``some very, very preliminary'' indications that sandinista troops were beginning to withdraw, but the duration of the u.s. exercise was ``not necessarily'' linked to that
the honduran officer, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said two honduran infantry battalions totaling 1,600 to 2,000 soldiers were moving in from a base at juticalpa, about 90 miles west. he said warplanes were on call from the tamara air base 15 miles north of tegucigalpa
orders were given for the soldiers to expel the ``invading troops'' with whatever means necessary, he said, adding that about half the original force had fled to nicaragua. honduran soldiers began sweeping the border region for mines thursday but none had been found, he reported
honduras gave the sandinistas 24 hours to get their soldiers out of the country, but the time of the deadline was not stated
the sandinistas have denied entering honduras but a nicaraguan military source indicated privately that they had
nicaragua's northern military headquarters is near the frontier in bocay and honduran warplanes flew raids in the area thursday, hours after u.s. troops began arriving in honduras
u.s. defense secretary frank carlucci said the american troops from the 82nd airborne and 7th light infantry were sent on a 10-day training exercise to provide ``moral support'' and would be kept away from combat
pentagon officials said privately the four u.s. battalions would spend eight or nine days training with hondurans in different parts of the country
one battalion of the 82nd airborne will be at juticalpa, an official said, ``but anyone who knows the country'' would realize the 90 miles ``might as well be 4,000. there's nothing but mountains and jungle in between.''
the basic order that these troops aren't to get near the fighting still stands,'' he said
president daniel ortega of nicaragua said thursday his soldiers were ready to ``combat and liquidate'' the 82nd airborne if necessary
alejandro bendana, secretary-general of the nicaraguan foreign ministry, said ``one step ... could lead to another'' in the border conflict, indicating war might result
the u.s.-supported contras have secret bases in honduras from which to attack across the border in their 6-year-old battle with the sandinistas
manuel suarez, spokesman for the honduran armed forces, told local reporters president jose azcona hoyo would continue telephone conversations with ortega and other central american leaders, trying ``to avoid a break in the peace process that has been developing in the region.''
among provisions of the peace plan signed by the five central american countries aug. 7 are cease-fires in civil wars and a ban on the use of one country's territory for attacks on another
azcona, 60, has been reported ill with flu for several days and canceled several meetings. the daily newspaper la prensa said he was dealing with the situation from his home
la prensa printed an editorial cartoon in which uncle sam said ``there's an invasion in honduras'' while azcona, a member of the armed forces and a diplomat look around saying, ``where, where, where?''
members of the legislature demanded a meeting with foreign minister carlos lopez to be told why they were not asked to approve azcona's request that american soldiers be sent in
reports on thursday's air raids conflicted
nicaragua's foreign ministry blamed the united states and made a formal protest
reagan administration officials said one of nicaragua's soviet-supplied helicopters was destroyed, but the sandinistas denied it. nicaragua is believed to have more than 40 military helicopters
honduras said its air force attacked only inside its own territory
suarez, the military spokesman, said the honduran air force raided along the border near san andres de bocay, site of the sandinista military headquarters in northern nicaragua
reporters flown to san andres de bocay saw two jet aircraft, unidentified, fly in from honduras just after noon thursday and drop at least five bombs near the border
a wonder both spiritual and touristic will be played out saturday at mission san juan capistrano when thousands of visitors scan the skies for returning cliff swallows
in other urban areas, the small, noisy birds are considered a messy menace. their pilgrimage from argentina to regions as far north as alaska goes unappreciated. their mud nests are destroyed before eggs are laid
but here the annual migration is considered a marvel, thanks to a 1939 song that popularized a legend about a franciscan padre befriending the weary birds when an inn keeper smashed their nests
some 9,000 swallow-seekers are expected to flock to the cobblestone streets around the 212-year-old mission during the annual celebration of the cleft-tailed birds' official return on march 19, st. joseph's day
when you think about it, who really cares if they come back every year? people are cyclical. it assures us that things are not screwed up,'' said alan lieberman, curator of birds for the san diego zoo, some 60 miles south
he added: ``i think it romanticizes love among the animals.''
as legend has it, the swallows have failed the camera- and binocular-toters only once, in 1935, when they were reportedly delayed by a storm
accounts of the swallows were recorded nearly from 1776, the year father junipero serra founded the mission. leon rene's 1939 song ``when the swallows come back to capistrano'' put the town on the map
in recent years, the number of birds sighted on march 19 has dropped from thousands to a handful. mission and tourism officials maintain that the shy birds are scared off by the welcoming hoopla
the insect-eating birds also are a victim of urbanization that has turned the small farming town 60 miles south of los angeles into a community of 22,500. lush orange groves and mudflats have become parking lots and condominiums
instead of nesting in the shade of the renovated mission, many of the white-bellied, brown birds set up house under the eaves of buildings and freeway overpasses in outlying areas
the swallows, they don't come like they used to. there are too many people here now and they scare them away,'' laments paul arbiso, 92, the mission's gardener and bell ringer since 1910
arbiso will ring four antique bells when he first sees a swallow saturday, kicking off an all-day party
the festivities should begin fairly early since the first birds to complete the 6,000-mile journey from goya, argentina, arrived several weeks ago, said brian mcinerney, director of tourism for the mission
we've got about 1,500 swallows at the mission already,'' mcinerney said earlier this week
the mission also has 50 workers answering inquiries from around the world, said mcinerney. last year's event put about $50,000 in the mission's coffers, he said
the local chamber of commerce said it does not keep a tally on the birds' economic impact, but spokeswoman jan hessell said hotels in the area are booked and merchants ready for the onslaught
people will buy anything with a swallow on it, and the mobs have to have somewhere to eat,'' she said
the event has its detractors. some bird experts argue that migrating animals don't make or keep appointments
march 19 is a day people chose and i'm not sure the swallows are aware of it,'' said gerald collier, a san diego state university orinthologist. ``they do come around the beginning of spring.''
he also points out that there are between 50 million and 100 million cliff swallows in the wild. ``so 1,500 come to san juan capistrano,'' he said. ``where are all the rest?''
some swallows will go to a shopping mall in nearby mission viejo, where nests from last year await them under the eaves of a department store
hershey gehris, the mall's general manager, recalls a different attitude towards cliff swallows in campbell, calif
they used to fight them more than here,'' gehris said. ``they do things to your clothes that make you a little upset, and they do marvelous things to the paint job on your car.''
i think they're neat around here,'' he adds. ``but i don't think i'd want them around all the time.''
seven soviet leaders, including the kremlin's no. 2 man, met friday with leading armenians and azerbaijanis to express the ruling politburo's concern about ethnic rioting that killed at least 32 people
the news agency tass said yegor k. ligachev, second to mikhail s. gorbachev in the hierarchy, also met separately with a group of workers from nagorno-karabakh, the predominantly armenian region of azerbaijan that armenians want to annex
armenian protests last month to support the annexation touched off a wave of unrest in the two southern soviet republics. on feb. 28, rioting broke out in sumgait, a city of azerbaijan, and officials say 32 people were killed
tass said that moscow-based science and cultural figures of armenian and azerbaijani descent were at friday's meeting in the communist party central committee
it said that at the session, ``serious concern was expressed in connection with the developments in the nagorno-karabakh autonomous region and the situation in soviet armenia and azerbaijan.''
besides ligachev, officials attending included full politburo members lev zaikov and mikhail solomentsev; candidate members pyotr demichev, vladimir dolgikh and georgy razumovsky, and central committee secretary anatoly lukyanov
among the armenians and azerbaijanis at the meeting were m.p. mchedlov, deputy director of the central committee's institute of marxism-leninism; f.k. salmanov, first deputy geology minister; s.a. sitaryan, first deputy director of the state planning committee; and k.n. brutens, editor of a historical journal, tass reported
it said the meeting was ``at the recommendation of the politburo,'' a sign of official concern about the ethnic unrest
tass said those attending came up with ``constructive suggestions that were taken into account and would help handle in a better way problems of economic, social and intellectual life in the region.'' it did not go into detail
the agency provided no further information on the meeting between ligachev and the workers from nagorno-karabakh
on feb. 26, gorbachev appealed for ``civic maturity and restraint'' in armenia and azerbaijan and pledged that the policy-making central committee would review relations among this vast nation's more than 100 nationalities
armenian activists reported in telephone calls to the associated press on thursday that armenians conducted a general strike in stepanakert, the main city of nagorno-karabakh, to demand annexation to armenia
the armenian republic's official yerevan radio reported friday that 1,661 armenians had arrived in armenia from azerbaijan since the rioting in sumgait. the radio report was monitored by the british broadcasting corp. in london
it said a government commission under first deputy premier vladimir movsisyan was in charge of helping the refugees
armenians are predominantly christians, while azeries, the dominant group in azerbaijan, are mostly shiite moslems
some homes these days go begging for a buyer
but the reason has nothing to do with high prices or rising interest rates
a new sales gimmick allows prospective home buyers to drive up to a house, tune their car radio to an am frequency and hear the low-down on closets, bedrooms and that unseen swimming pool out back without getting out of the car
the device has a range of about 150 feet and a tape that plays for a couple minutes
robin stella, a vice president at robert stone inc. real estate agency, said friday her company began using the talking house device three months ago and sales this year are up 43 percent
ms. stella said the device deserves at least some credit for the boost
the devices are used primarily to sell houses, but its manufacturer, realty electronics in fond du lac, wis., said other applications are being discovered
we certainly envision a time when they are very common _ that you pull up to a bank and hear about their interest rates; that you go to a drive-in restaurant and hear about the specials,'' said scott matthew, vice president
already, some of the 10,000 devices sold have gone to car washes with long lines that use it to peddle their waxes
car dealers closed on sunday employ it to entice buyers who go window shopping. a shopping mall in ohio is using it to advertise mark-downs
the inspiration came from disney amusement parks, where visitors tune their radios to a certain frequency to find out more about the attractions, matthew said
police stood guard at a high school friday after two days of fights between ``jocks'' and ``burnouts'' that began over control of a hallway hangout
louise gates, a spokeswoman at plymouth-canton high school in suburban detroit, said there was one minor scuffle friday that lasted about 10 minutes
fights between student-athletes and burnouts, who students said are distinguished by their leather jackets and rock concert t-shirts, erupted wednesday and thursday
administrators said the fighting began over use of a gathering place known as ``the pit.''
there were no injuries, but at least 12 students were suspended for fighting, and school officials sealed off the pit, officials said
about 20 officers from canton and nearby plymouth township were called in to restore order thursday. police declined to say how many officers were at the school friday
the amount of police that they brought in was outrageous. it gave the kids a reason to keep going,'' said reeder singler, a student at nearby plymouth-salem high school who also takes classes at plymouth-canton
singler, who doesn't align himself with either group, added: ``with the police here, it's just making things worse. things would have died down naturally, but now something might happen sometime in the future.''
he said the battle is ``not really over turf.''
it's over discrimination of one group over another,'' he said. the burnouts feel the jocks receive preferential treatment from some administrators and faculty members, he said
on thursday, the burnouts sent principal thomas tattan a note saying, ``we feel we should be treated with the same courtesy as other peer and social groups. we believe you're taking the jocks' side over the pit issue.''
the two groups met friday to try to resolve the issue, but the meeting broke up when administrators tried to join the discussions, singler said. the groups will continue to talk, he said
gates said administrators talked to both sides, but declined to reveal what was discussed. to conform, subs grafs 11-14 bgng: the army confirmed... with six grafs. pick up 15th graf pvs: in the west bank city...</note>
israeli troops fired on palestinians in the west bank and gaza strip on friday following noontime moslem prayers, killing two arabs, the army said
at least 25 protesters were wounded in the clashes, hospital officials reported
two israeli civilians were detained for allegedly stockpiling an arsenal of weapons intended for anti-arab attacks, according to police
israeli military authorities detained a prominent attorney from gaza and four arab journalists, prompting an outcry from israeli liberals. authorities also ordered foreign journalists out of the gaza strip and many areas of the west bank
chief of staff dan shomron called on israel's leaders to reach an accord with the arabs to end more than 14 weeks of unrest
in an interview with the daily davar newspaper, shomron said the israeli army ``cannot endure this situation forever. the matter has to be solved.''
the latest deaths brought to 102 the number of palestinians killed during the violent uprising, according to u.n. figures. most of the deaths were caused by gunfire or beatings
u.n. officials in nicosia, cyprus said that more than 400 palestinian refugees had been injured in gaza this week, bringing to more than 900 the number of casualties in march
protests erupted at the shati refugee camp in gaza after hundreds of worshipers streamed from the camp's al-gharbi mosque and saw soldiers scuffling with three youths, witnesses said
troops dropped tear gas canisters from helicopters and fired rubber bullets before using live ammunition to restore order, the witnesses and the army said
the army said one palestinian was killed there. officials at shifa hospital identified him as 24-year-old hani abu hamam
at the ein beit ilmah refugee camp near nablus, the largest city in the west bank, a youth was fatally wounded when he attacked a soldier during a protest, an army spokeswoman said
the spokeswoman, not identified in line with military rules, said the victim had assaulted the soldier with ``a dangerous object,'' but did not say what the object was
in saving himself, the soldier shot the boy, and that resulted in death,'' she said
officials at nablus' ittihad hospital said the victim, identified as muhamed mahmud suleiman khaled, 19, was dead on arrival. jehad alawni, a nurse, said khaled was shot in the left thigh and bled to death
the nurse said khaled was shot at a military outpost and not during a protest, but the army spokeswoman denied that account
in the west bank city of ramallah, 10 miles north of jerusalem, troops confronted about 200 arab youths outside ramallah hospital
in an apparently new tactic, troops dumped gravel from helicopters on protesters below before using live ammunition. two palestinian men were shot and wounded. one was in serious condition with a wound to the abdomen, hospital officials said
two 44-year-old israelis, identified by the haaretz newspaper as moshe vinokor of rishon lezion and gershon luxemburg of jerusalem, were detained after police discovered they had stockpiled a large arsenal of weapons, apparently for use in attacks against arabs, police said
investigators determined the two had acted alone and were not part of a larger ring, haaretz said
the army also rounded up scores of suspected palestinian activists this week in a crackdown aimed at curbing riots on land day, a traditional palestinian nationlist day that falls on march 30, israel radio and arab reports said. the arab-owned palestine press service set the number of detainees at about 400
mohammed abu shaban, the vice president of the gaza bar association, was picked up late thursday after participating in a gathering at tel aviv university protesting israeli policies in the territories
abu shaban has represented several gazans in appeals to the israeli supreme court. tel aviv university professors and the left-wing citizens' rights movement sent a telegram to defense minister yitzhak rabin demanding abu shaban's release
israeli army officials alleged abu shaban was involved in subversive activities, but israeli liberals contended he was picked up because of his participation in the tel aviv gathering
it's devastating to believe that people cannot talk freely on our campus,'' university professor moshe shaked said on israel radio
four arab journalists also were detained, according to arab reports
chief of staff shomron said israeli leaders should open peace talks even before calm returns. he said demonstrations could be ended immediately if the army ordered soldiers to open fire on protesters, a move he would oppose
if someone wants to achieve calm at the cost of ordering the army to ... go against the basic norms of the israeli army,'' he said, ``then it will have to be without me.''
the customs service has donated about $20 million in clothing to three african nations through an agreement with the agency for international development, officials said thursday
the agreement, signed by customs commissioner william von raab and aid administrator alan woods, establishes a permanent program allowing the transfer of seized textile merchandise for humanitarian distribution
this is a true case of government triumphing over its own bureaucracy,'' said von raab, noting that ``it benefits more than the egos of government officials. someone will actually benefit from this.''
previously, customs had no recourse but to spend ``hundreds of thousands of taxpayers' dollars to destroy this clothing,'' von raab said
a major shipment of clothing was seized after the people's republic of china alerted customs that counterfeit documents were being used to bring the items into the country
the clothing includes cotton jeans, shirts, dresses, denim jackets and infants' cotton shirts manufactured in china
aid will turn the clothing over to world vision relief organization and the adventist development and relief agency for distribution in mozambique, malawi and zimbabwe, where it is expected to clothe 20,000 children
tan siew sin, former finance minister and head of a multinational company based here, died friday of a heart attack. he was 72
tan siew sin served in the cabinet from the time of independence from britain in 1957 until his retirement in 1974
the millionaire also was chairman of the sime darby group, which owns rubber, palm oil and cocoa plantations, and trading houses and factories in malaysia, singapore, hong kong, london, australia, indonesia, the philippines and other countries
joseph paterno, a reputed mobster who remained out of jail for two years by claiming ill health, died wednesday of lymphatic cancer at age 64
paterno pleaded guilty in dade circuit court after making a plea agreement with the dade state attorney's office in september to charges that he plotted to murder two people in 1985
the terms of his plea agreement with the dade state attorney's office allowed paterno to stay in his miami beach home while seeking medical treatment. the agreement called for paterno to be medically evaluated each year, until such time as he could serve a prison sentence of 12 to 15 years
john r. king, a 114-year-old man believed to be coshocton county's oldest resident and one of the longest-lived people in the united states, died thursday
king worked in the timber industry most of his life, then joined clow corp. in newcomerstown and also worked for the now-defunct heller tool co
lillian anne kirby flynn, the mother of boston mayor raymond l. flynn, died thursday of emphysema at age 74
three powerful senate chairmen and the senate democratic leader agreed friday to seek to amend the arms treaty signed by president reagan and soviet leader mikhail gorbachev in a way that would limit future presidents' ability to reinterpret the accord
the administration immediately denounced the move
under the amendment, interpretations of the intermediate nuclear forces treaty by president reagan and his sucessors in the white house would be based not just on the treaty text but on the full record of senate ratification hearings
the condition would be attached to prevent the a recurrence of what many senators have charged is reagan's overly broad interpretation of the 1972 anti-ballistic missile treaty
that interpretation has been used to justify testing and development of reagan's strategic defense initiative, often called ``star wars.''
congressional sources, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the decision to attach the condition _ to prevent future broad interpretations of the inf pact _ was made at a luncheon by the four leading senators
they are majority leader robert byrd of west virginia, foreign relations chairman claiborne pell of rhode island, armed services chairman sam nunn of georgia and intelligence committee co-chairman david boren
the original author of the proposal was sen. joseph biden, d-del
their condition will be presented to the foreign relations panel during consideration of the treaty next week, the sources said
the inf, signed by reagan and gorbachev in december, would eliminate all land-based missiles with ranges between 300 and 3,125 miles and has been hailed by most senators of both parties as an important step forward in arms control
ratification by the required two-thirds of the senate is expected, but the attachments of conditions opposed by the administration would be a complicating factor
in a commentary attached to the proposed amendment the senators have said their purpose was not to resolve the dispute over the abm treaty
rather the provision is intended to reaffirm certain constitutional principles which have been brought into question during the `reinterpretation' debate,'' the commentary said
in that debate, many democrats have argued that the abm treaty, as outlined during the ratification hearings in 1972, prevents much star wars testing and development. the administration has asserted that its interpretation _ based on the text and the record of negotiations with the soviets _ permits star wars development
the white house, meanwhile, in a letter to sen. richard lugar, r-ind., a member of the foreign relations panel, reiterated its opposition to attaching conditions to the inf treaty
the letter, signed by arthur b. culvahouse, counsel to the president, and sent to lugar on thursday, said the resolution is ``seriously flawed.''
he acknowledged that for domestic purposes a president would adhere to an interpretation generally agreed to by the senate, but he said the proposed amendment would go too far, by binding an administration to ``all statements made by official of the executive branch during ratification proceedings.''
these would include ``answers to over 1,000 questions submitted by members of the senate, no matter how trivial or how unimportant the issue addressed may be to the senate's advice and consent deliberations.''
the result might be two inf treaties, one binding domestically against the president and a second one binding internationally between the united states and the soviet union,'' culvahouse said
he said the differences ``will favor the soviet union because the soviet union is not and cannot be bound by our domestic processes.''
the proposal ``only serves the interests of confusion, ambiguity, confrontation and uncertainty,'' he said
backers of former state school superintendent carolyn warner filed petitions friday to put her on the recall election ballot against impeached gov. evan mecham, setting up a possible seven-way race in the may 17 vote
more than 100 people took out petitions to run against the first-term republican governor, but only six came back with signatures as friday's filing deadline passed
backers of mrs. warner, a democrat who lost to mecham in 1986, filed what they said were about 6,500 signatures, well over the total of 3,336 valid signatures required
backers of acting gov. rose mofford, another democrat, and two republican hopefuls _ party national committeeman jack londen and former congressman john rhodes _ submitted signatures thursday
mecham is automatically on the ballot, unless the senate's impeachment trial ends before then with a vote to bar him from public office
two lesser-known candidates, one a real-estate broker with little political experience and the other a member of the socialist workers party, also filed under the deadline
under state law, the highest vote total wins the recall election, even if it is less than a majority. political affiliations are not indicated on the ballot
mecham was elected on his fifth try in a race against mrs. warner and a democrat running as an independent, bill schulz
several candidates have said that a large number of candidates in the may 17 election would boost mecham's chances of retaining office
state law requires that mrs. mofford, who was elected secretary of state in 1986 and became acting governor when mecham was impeached last month, resign both posts if she is to campaign openly for the governor's job
she has declined to say whether she would resign and run actively
warner campaign spokesman dave bolger said mrs. warner would not run if mrs. mofford declared she would campaign actively
on the republican side, londen vowed to drop out if mecham's senate impeachment trial results in acquittal. rhodes said he would stay in the race regardless of the outcome of the trial, which wound up its third week friday
mecham is charged with obstructing justice, concealing a $350,000 campaign loan and loaning $80,000 in state money to his auto dealership
the other two candidates filing petitions were tempe real-estate broker john c. oertle sr. and and socialist workers party candidate bernie senter
the soldiers who left fort ord for honduras are members of the 7th light infantry division, designed for quick airlifts to any part of the world on short notice
some members of the so-called bayonet division have been trained in warfare in saudi arabia, the sinai desert, korea, panama and honduras
in october 1985, the 7th was incorporated into the military's rapid deployment force and became the army's first modern light division. it is one of four light infantry divisions in the army; the others are based in hawaii, alaska and new york
a light infantry division is designed for low- to mid-intensity combat,'' said capt. guy shields, fort ord spokesman
shields said the entire fort ord division of 11,400 soldiers can be moved in less than six days. a description of the 7th light issued by fort ord says ``initial combat elements can be in a potential crisis area in less than 18 hours.''
the description also calls the 7th light ``an offensively oriented, highly responsive combat division deployable three times faster than existing infantry divisions.''
the units at fort ord consist of nine infantry battalions. they have fewer vehicles, less equipment and fewer soldiers than standard infantry divisions, and thus are able to move faster, in 500 airlifts instead of about 1,200
in march 1986, 200 fort ord soldiers were sent to honduras for u.s. and honduran military exercises known as big pine. they were stationed near the nicaraguan border about 100 miles from the site of skirmishes between the nicaraguan army and the contras, and practiced troop deployment
the fort ord troops brought some vehicles and personal weapons such as m-16a1 rifles and sidearms, but were cautioned to avoid any real combat
in march 1987, 750 soldiers from the division were sent to honduras for several weeks of field exercises with honduran troops
massachusetts gov. michael dukakis continued to hold a lead friday as washington state democrats were wrapping up their tally of results from precinct caucuses
with nearly complete results from five congressional districts, dukakis had won support from 3,784, or 44.6 percent, of the delegates elected to county conventions, which will be held in april. jesse jackson was supported by 3,083, or 36.3 percent, of the county delegates and 1,074, or 12.7 percent, were uncommitted
sen. paul simon of illinois won support from 300 county convention delegates, while 166 supported tennessee sen. albert gore jr. and 78 supported missouri rep. richard gephardt
if these figures hold up through the congressional district conventions next month, dukakis will receive 14 delegates to the democratic national convention this summer, jackson will get nine delegates and another five will be uncommitted
washington democrats met in party caucuses on march 8, but results have not been available until now
the state party refused to release partial results from the remaining three congressional districts. those results are expected next week
the precinct caucuses elected delegates to the county conventions, where delegates to the conventions in each of the state's eight congressional districts will be chosen. those conventions will pick a total of 43 national convention delegates, and those delegates will meet later to choose another 22 delegates
in all, washington state will send 73 delegates to the democratic national convention, including 65 chosen through the caucus process. in addition, gov. booth gardner and seven democratic national committee members from the state automatically hold seats as delegates to the convention. discussed</head> troops to front.</note>
honduras asked for u.s. help friday in ferrying honduran troops to the scene of their battle with sandinista forces, administration sources said, adding that the request was likely to be approved
the sources, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the government of honduras asked the united states for helicopter support in moving some additional honduran troops to an area within about 20 miles of the border of nicaragua where the fighting has been going on
the cable came in to the state department today. but no decision has been made as yet,'' said an official who asked not to be identified
but another official said, ``i can't imagine that we would turn it down. we've done it before.''
in december 1986, 40 u.s. helicopters were used to ferry honduran troops and equipment to the nicaraguan border to repel a nicaraguan attack on contra rebel camps on honduran soil. the transported 700 honduran soldiers to the front, after honduran president jose azcona asked for the aid. no americans became involved in comba
the sources said a response to honduras would probably come over the weekend. they said the honduras were not planning to move a large number of troops, but they declined to give a number. they said the united states has sufficient transport helicopters in honduras to do the job
the sources said that they would be following the same type of rules as in l986 when they did this, in that u.s. personnel and equipment would stay well away from the scene of fighting to ensure they were not exposed to hostile fire
the request came as u.s. troops continued to arrive in honduras in a show of force, and a bipartisan group of 11 senators proposed a $48 million package of new aid to nicaragua's contra rebels, including renewed authority for the cia to deliver previously stockpiled weapons
assistant secretary of state elliott abrams said earlier that additional assistance was being discussed with honduran president jose azcona, in response to a reported nicaraguan incursion
white house chief of staff howard baker said president reagan would give ``most careful'' consideration to any request from honduras for troops to help repel nicaraguan forces, although he reiterated that u.s. troops were not expected to be involved in any military operation in the region
one of the senate's leading peace advocates, sen. mark o. hatfield, said the sending of u.s. troops amounted merely to ``matching stupidity with stupidity'' and introduced legislation barring the troops from a combat role without permission from congress
sponsors of the new contra aid proposal said they hoped it would revive negotiations in congress and with the reagan administration on an aid package that could be quickly enacted to replace supplies lost or expended during the past week's heavy fighting along the nicaraguan-honduran border
but the extent of the damage inflicted on the rebels by the sandinista incursion remained unclear. sen. david boren, d-okla., chairman of the senate intelligence committee, said the nicaraguan troops were withdrawing without accomplishing all their objectives
we think it's very important right now to send a signal to the sandinista government'' which allegedly crossed the border into honduras in an effort to destroy rebel camps and supplies, boren said
sen. nancy kassebaum, r-kan., said announcement of the package also would strengthen the contras as they enter direct cease-fire talks with the managua regime, scheduled for monday. ``this is a common-sense, moderate and reasoned approach,'' she said
the proposal would use $48 million in unspent pentagon money to buy food, clothing, shelter and medical supplies, and to transport it to troops in the field, over the next year. about $3 million of that amount would go for communications gear
but in what promised to be a controversial provision, the package would allow the cia to airdrop ammunition and weapons previously stockpiled by the rebels to troops in the field. boren said the rebels still have $2 million to $5 million worth of undelivered supplies, about half of them lethal
and it would give president reagan the right to hold a quick, guaranteed vote in congress on any request for further military aid under certain conditions if the peace talks between the sandinistas and contras break down
as a ``carrot,'' the bill also would promise long-term economic aid for the region once political stability is restored
an administration official, speaking on condition he not be identified, said of the new aid package, ``we are encouraged from reports we have heard about it, but we will have to wait until we have the actual details.''
action on further aid for the rebels has been stalled since march 3, when the house narrowly rejected a $30 million package of purely humanitarian aid. aid proponents saw the sandinista incursion into honduras as a new opportunity to revive interest in aid
meanwhile, abrams told reporters that american officials have been discussing with honduran president azcona the possibility of providing additional assistance to that country, in addition to the 3,200 troops already airlifted to palmerola air base near tegucigalpa
there are some other possibilities that we've discussed,'' abrams said, adding that the possibilities did not include additional troops
baker said that if a request were received from honduras for troops to help repel nicaraguan forces, ``it would be most carefully considered and most deliberately considered. but i cannot tell you what decision the president would make under those circumstances.''
baker, interviewed on the syndicated television program, ``john mclaughlin's one on one,'' was asked at what point u.s. troops would enter action
i don't anticipate that will occur at all. i think that the honduran forces can handle that on their own, and i fully anticipate that either the nicaraguans will retire on their own or honduras will, as they say, encourage them to do that. but i do not expect american troops to be involved in any military operation there,'' he said
hatfield's proposal would permit u.s. military exercises in honduras, like the training mission which began thursday, only if congress has been notified a month in advance. troops could not be sent into combat without a declaration of war or a ``clear and present danger'' of attack on the united states or its citizens. it also would prohibit any increase in the permanent u.s. military presence there
he said the administration's action amounted to ``sinking to the level of those in nicaragua who have no interest in peace.''
under the terms of this legislation we will not allow and will not tolerate sending american military personnel into combat in central america,'' hatfield said. ``it is not an option... we will not permit our young people to be used as pawns in this political game. and we will not push them down the slippery slope of intervention as we pushed their fathers and brothers down that slope into vietnam.''
the senators who proposed the aid package included seven republicans and four democrats. they are boren; lloyd bentsen, d-texas; bob graham, d-fla., sam nunn, d-ga.; richard lugar, r-ind., daniel evans, r-wash., kassebaum, john mccain, r-ariz.; phil gramm, r-texas; mitch mcconnell, r-ky., and frank murkowski, r-alaska

here is a list of political stories that have moved for this cycle:
on the budget:

undated _ richard gephardt promised friday to defend ``american jobs rather than foreign protectionism,'' and michael dukakis attacked president reagan's policy in central america as the two democratic presidential hopefuls pointed toward next week's michigan showdown
slug am-political rdp. a0843

and these other stories:

topeka, kan. _ massachusetts gov. michael dukakis holds a slight edge in kansas democratic presidential caucuses on saturday based on an organization that even his rivals concede is strong
slug am-kansas democrats. a0699

drayton plains, mich. _ democratic presidential candidate michael dukakis criticized the reagan administration's sending of troops to honduras as he split his campaign day friday between michigan and kansas
slug am-dukakis. a0789

detroit _ eighteen members of congress flew to michigan friday trying to help revive the flagging presidential campaign of fellow rep. richard gephardt, who said, ``i'm the underdog today but that doesn't really matter.''
slug am-gephardt. a0740

harrisburg, pa. (ap) _ illinois sen. paul simon said friday he is having trouble raising money but took a jab at better-financed democratic presidential rivals, saying ``if you're talking about buying the nomination, i can't do that.''
slug am-simon. a0758

san juan, puerto rico _ democratic presidential candidate albert gore jr. on friday sought the favor of puerto rico voters ahead of their sunday primary, saying he would consider allowing the territory to be exempt from federal minimum wage laws
slug am-puerto rico primary. a0790

sacramento, calif. _ pat robertson said friday he is staying in the republican presidential race despite vice president george bush's overwhelming delegate lead because ``there has to be a rallying point for conservatives.''
slug am-robertson. a0738

boston _ partners in a new york banking firm that does business with the state of massachusetts have given money and helped raise more for the presidential bid of gov. michael dukakis, according to a published report friday
slug am-dukakis-contributions. a0???

with:

am-candidates-schedules. a0803
am-us-deleg-sum. a0771
am-political briefs. a0798
---dukakis and jackson lead pack in new york poll
---tower says iran-contra won't hurt bush
---robertson forces say they'll elect louisiana gop chairman
---jackson won't seek postponement of south carolina county conventions
the plo envoy told an emergency general assembly session friday the united nations should file suit to keep his mission open if the united states tries to close it
some diplomats said the world body should consider fighting the u.s. government in american courts and provide alternative accommodations for the palestine liberation organization on u.n. international territory. the plo has observer status at the united nations
plo observer zehdi labib terzi and other speakers denounced the u.s. justice department decision to close the mission under a new anti-terrorism act, saying the move conflicts with u.s. treaty obligations to the united nations. the u.s. state department has opposed the closure
the justice department says it will take legal action if the mission is not closed by march 21, the effective date of the law. it is not expected to be closed by monday and litigation is expected
terzi said israel also should be denied its place at the united nations if the mission is closed. the united nations regards the plo as the sole legitimate representative of the palestinian people, but israel and the united states consider it a terrorist organization
we deem it proper the general assembly should ask the secretary-general ... to take all steps, including legal steps if necessary, to ensure the plo observer mission be able to discharge its official functions without hindrance,'' terzi said
it was the second emergency session on the plo issue this month and the 159-member assembly is to consider draft resolutions condemning the u.s. action. general assembly resolutions carry the moral weight of world opinion but are not binding on the membership, as are those of the security council
at the same time, deputy assistant secretary of state william walker has gone to panama at noriega's request to discuss possible terms for his departure from panama, the source said
according to the official, walker had instructions to tell noriega that the united states will not seek his extradition on drug trafficking charges if he flees to a third country
the official said that walker went to panama with this offer in the hopes that it would facilitate noriega's departure, thus sparing the country a period of prolonged political upheaval, including widespread suffering
the country has been virtually paralyzed economically for most of the past two weeks
the government of spain has said it would be wiling to admit noriega provided he requests political asylum and the united states agrees not to seek his extradition
people who are moderately physically fit have a lower risk of dying of a heart attack even if they don't exercise, a new study shows
you don't have to be a super athlete. you don't have to have extraordinary levels of fitness or physical activity to get the benefit,'' said one of the study's directors, steven blair of the institute for aerobics research in dallas
blair described the study friday during a meeting of the american heart association
the study is one of the first to show that physical fitness _ as measured by the length of time a subject can walk or run on a treadmill _ protects against fatal heart attacks even in people who don't exercise, blair said
physical fitness is a function of past exercise and genetics, blair said. some people are simply born more fit than others, blair said
it is widely accepted that exercise or other forms of physical activity protect against heart disease, and many studies have shown that the protection extends even to those who engage in only moderate physical activity
this study, of 3,120 women and 10,226 men who came to the cooper clinic in dallas for preventative health exams, extends that observation to physical fitness itself
blair's institute and the cooper clinic are both part of the aerobics center, founded by dr. kenneth cooper to encourage exercise and physical fitness. the institute is the research arm of the aerobics center
blair and his collaborator, harold kohl iii, found that men in the bottom 20 percent when ranked by physical fitness were twice as likely as the others to die of a heart attack
women in the bottom 20 percent had 2.8 times the risk of other women
the conclusions that can be reached by the study are limited by the fact that the subjects were not a representative sample of the american population, blair said
eighty percent were college graduates, they were virtually all white and they were largely well-to-do, he said
in a standard treadmill test, a physically fit 40-year-old man might be able to exercise for 20 or 25 minutes, blair said. a champion athlete could last more than half an hour, and people who are not fit can become exhausted much sooner
here, at a glance, are developments in the nicaragua-honduras crisis thursday:
planeloads of u.s. soldiers began arriving at palmerola air base in honduras to engage in joint exercises with honduran troops. president reagan ordered the troops to honduras in a show of strength to counter what he called an invasion by nicaraguan forces. nicaragua's sandinista army was battling contra rebels in the border region
two battalions from the 82nd airborne division of fort bragg, n.c. and two battalions from the 7th light infantry division of fort ord, calif., were combined into a task force of 3,000 troops deployed about 125 miles west of the reported fighting
nicaragua said warplanes attacked a sandinista military headquarters in northern nicaragua near the honduran border. a reagan administration source in washington confirmed that honduras had launched the raid
a nicaraguan spokesman said the planes fired at least five rockets but there were no injuries or damage. he said sandinista troops fired on the planes, forcing them to turn back
in managua, nicaraguan president daniel ortega called for a meeting of the u.n. security council to deal with what he called ``one more escalation of the war against nicaragua.''
ortega said the sandinistas would continue their offensive against the contra rebels. ``we are ready to combat and liquidate the famous forces of the 82nd airborne division,'' he said
earlier, a foreign ministry spokesman said nicaragua already had begun withdrawing troops from the border region after driving about 2,000 contra rebels back into honduras
col. manuel suarez benavides, spokesman for the honduran armed forces, said the government and the army had given nicaragua ``a peremptory deadline'' of 24 hours to withdraw 2,000 troops from honduras
honduran military intelligence sources said about 4,000 honduran soldiers were still surrounding about 2,000 nicaraguan troops. the armed forces spokesman said the troops were six miles inside honduras
we will not allow the sandinistas to move further into the interior of our territory,'' said one honduras military source. ``we want to avoid a large conflict, but if it isn't possible, we will have to face the invading troops.''
secretary of state george p. shultz said the u.s. troops airlifted to central america are not there in a ``shooting capacity'' but to signal opposition to nicaraguan aggression. he told a senate committee the intent was to ``get people's attention to what is happening in central america'' and to say to the honduran government, ``we are your friends. we stand with you.''
it is important for people to know the united states will fight, but we don't plan to get involved in any military way,'' shultz said
some democrats in congress quickly questioned president reagan's decision to send the troops. senate majority leader robert c. byrd jr., d-w. va., called it an ``overreaction,'' and house speaker jim wright, d-texas, said it was unjustified
senate republican leader bob dole of kansas defended the action, declaring that contra rebels are being overrun and ``slaughtered by the hundreds.'' he called on the president to immediately resubmit a package of military and logistical aid for the contra rebels
in costa rica, president oscar arias said the reported sandinista incursion into honduras jeopardizes truce talks set for monday between the nicaraguan government and contra rebels
being certain that the nicaraguan army invaded honduras, my government condemns it categorically and with firmness,'' arias said
abc news reported friday night that unidentified u.s. and central american sources say noriega has signed off on most parts of a package that will allow some face-saving for him, but will get him out of office and out of panama
the united states has applied economic pressure, including blocking the transfer of currency to panama and withholding panama canal fees, in an attempt to encourage the ouster of noriega. the political opposition has sought to get rid of the de facto leader of panama for months
the united states stepped up its actions against noriega after noriega deposed president eric arturo delvalle on feb. 25. delvalle had tried to fire noriega. the united states still recognizes delvalle, although solis palma was officially installed feb. 26
abc reported that as a condition of noriega's departure, he will never go to jail and will be allowed to retain most of his wealth
according to abc, the deal included that noriega will step down with full honors; several days or weeks later, he will leave panama, going either to spain or france. in addition, abc said, opposition leaders in panama have agreed not to seek criminal charges against noriega there and not to try to get any of his money held in overseas accounts. saying honduras asked for helicopter support; picks up 10th graf pvs, ``the 60-year-old ...</note>
the army on friday began moving 2,000 soldiers to border jungles it says nicaraguan troops have penetrated, and president jose azcona hoyo said he was depending on u.s. support to fend off agression from nicaragua
reagan administration sources said friday that honduras had asked for u.s. help in transporting the troops to the border area. the sources, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the request for helicopter support would probably be approved
honduras said the nicaraguans crossed the border in pursuit of u.s.-backed contra rebels, and a ranking officer said friday that about 1,000 of the soldiers remained on honduran territory
at a news conference friday, azcona said the u.s. deployment of more than 3,000 troops in honduras was a warning and he would ask for more u.s. help if the leftist nicaraguan government didn't withdraw its troops
the u.s. embassy said about 800 american paratroopers, the last of the 3,200 troops sent to honduras, were dropped onto palmerola air base friday. the defense department says the troops will be in central america about 10 days
azcona said his own troops will keep bombing sandinista positions if the nicaraguans do not withdraw
we are preparing an operation to bomb inside honduran territory,'' he said the day after an air raid in the bocay region
azcona said he decided to ask for u.s. troops because their arrival would be ``spectacular.'' he said he expected the ``simple presence and immediate response'' of u.s. troops would scare the sandinista troops into withdrawing
the united states helped honduras move troops to the border in december 1986, after nicaraguan forces attacked contra rebel camps in honduras. forty u.s. helicopters transported 700 honduran soldiers to the front. no americans were involved in combat
the reagan administration sources said that if the request for helicopter support was granted, u.s. personnel would stay away from any fighting
nicaragua has denied its troops entered honduras, but a nicaraguan military source indicated friday that they had
the 60-year-old azcona said honduran infantry was moving into the mountainous bocay region and should be in position by saturday
we're acting with complete calm. the sandinistas only have to leave our territory,'' azcona told a news conference
the honduran officer, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said two infantry battalions totaling from 1,600 to 2,000 soldiers were moving in from a base at juticalpa, about 90 miles west of bocay. he said warplanes were on call from tamara air base 15 miles north of tegucigalpa
the officer said soldiers had orders to expel ``invading troops'' by whatever means necessary, adding that about half the original force had fled back to nicaragua and about 1,000 remained
he said the remaining sandinista troops were spread over an area about 40 miles square
pentagon officials said privately the four u.s. battalions from the 82nd airborne and 7th light infantry would spend eight or nine days training with hondurans in different parts of the country
one battalion of the 82nd airborne will be at juticalpa, one official said, ``but anyone who knows the country'' would realize the 90 miles ``might as well be 4,000. there's nothing but mountains and jungle in between.''
the basic order that these troops aren't to get near the fighting still stands,'' he said
president daniel ortega of nicaragua said thursday his soldiers were ready to ``combat and liquidate'' the 82nd airborne and would continue the offensive against contra rebels in an area reaching from central nicaragua to the border
alejandro bendana, secretary-general of nicaragua's foreign ministry, said ``one step ... could lead to another'' in the border conflict, indicating war might result
the contras have had secret bases in honduras from which to attack across the border in their 6-year-old battle with the sandinistas
nicaragua's northern military headquarters is in san andres de bocay near the frontier and honduran warplanes flew raids in the area thursday, hours after u.s. troops began arriving
azcona said the planes fired rockets on a dirt airstrip in honduras ``used by nicaraguan helicopters.'' he would not confirm u.s. reports that a soviet-made helicopter was destroyed. the sandinistas denied it
reporters flown from nicaragua to san andres de bocay saw two unidentified jets fly in from honduras thursday and drop at least five bombs near the border. show that baker's remarks about noriega came before officials revealed us envoy in panama. picks up 20th graf pvs bgng: on possible ...</note>
president reagan would give ``most careful'' consideration to any request from honduras for u.s. troops to assist in repelling nicaraguan forces, white house chief of staff howard h. baker jr. said friday
interviewed on the television program, ``john mclaughlin's one on one,'' baker said, however, that he does not expect u.s. troops to be used in any military engagements in the region
the presidential aide defended reagan's decision to send u.s. troops into the area and denied that the united states had put pressure on the honduran government to request them
he said the president made the decision ``in the second floor of the residence portion of the white house a minute after 8:00'' on wednesday evening, after receiving a request from honduran president jose azcona
i do not believe there was any effort, any arm-twisting, to try to contrive a situation where he would make this request,'' baker said. ``i think it was made for the reason stated in this letter: his country was invaded and that he wanted help.''
interviewer john mclaughlin asked baker what the president would do if azcona asked him to have u.s. troops join honduran troops ``in combat, to repel the invaders.''
no such request has been received. i do not believe such a request will be received,'' baker said. ``but were it received, to answer your hypothetical question, were it to be received, it would be most carefully considered and most deliberately considered. but i cannot tell you what decision the president would make under those circumstances.''
when asked at what point u.s. troops would enter action, baker said, ``i don't anticipate that will occur at all. i think that the honduran forces can handle that on their own, and i fully anticipate that either the nicaraguans will retire on their own or honduras will, as they say, encourage them to do that. but i do not expect american troops to be involved in any military operation there.''
baker rejected suggestions that the administration had raised the alarm about the nicaraguan border crossing in order to strengthen its hand in seeking renewed assistance from congress for rebels fighting nicaragua's marxist-led government
it was not our design,'' he said. ``it did not work that way. and we did not want it that way.''
in fact, baker said, he thinks prospects for an agreement on aid to the rebels were better on tuesday, before the crisis arose, than they are now
i think we were on the brink of that until this incursion occurred, and until we received this request from azcona,'' he said. ``after that, there's dust in the air and fur flying, and clearly we are not better off now than we were before.''
he also said, however, that he believes the prospects will improve again after ``the dust settles and people think about it and understand what's happened, and stop imputing bad motives to this administration and this president.''
but if that was our design, it was the dumbest legislative strategy ever devised, because it hasn't worked that way,'' he said
the program was taped for weekend broadcast, and a transcript was distributed for release on friday
on other subjects, baker said:
_that when he went to panama as senate republican leader during the debate on the panama canal treaties, gen. manuel antonio noriega, who was then the panamanian intelligence chief, threatened in a conversation to blow up the canal if the treaties were not ratified. he said omar torrijos, then the panamanian strongman, told him, ``look, noriega's sort of a hot-head, don't pay any attention to him.''
but baker said the administration, which is putting pressure on noriega to step down, has not had direct contact with the panamanian leader. he was asked about reports that noriega wants direct contacts with the united states but that the united states will not agree to those talks until he agrees to leave panama
there have been some contacts that would appear to be from gen. noriega or on his behalf, but that's all i can tell you ... they purport to be ... queries by _ on gen. noriega's part _ but we have not (had) direct contact with gen. noriega,'' baker said
baker made his remarks before other administration officials revealed late friday that a u.s. envoy has gone to panama at noriega's request to discuss terms of his possible departure
_on possible pardons for individuals indicted in the iran-contra affair, ``the president's simply not going to address that question. the president has the constitutional pardoning authority, but he's said over and over, this is not the time and it's not the circumstance in which to consider that.''
_he does not expect vice president george bush, assuming bush is the republican presidential nominee, to ask him to be his running mate. ``i think he needs to go to a governor, perhaps, someone who can bring about a balance to the ticket.'' he said possibilities would include govs. george deukmejian of california, tom kean of new jersey, and former govs. lamar alexander of tennessee and richard thornburgh of pennsylvania
soviets who earn $3,200 or more a month working in a cooperative operating outside state control will have to pay more than half the money back in taxes, and even as much as 90 percent, izvestia said friday
the government newspaper outlined progressive income taxes for members of cooperatives that it said will go into effect april 1
taxes will remain low for the cooperatives themselves, but income taxes for those who earn more than 500 rubles ($800) a month from working in the cooperatives will climb steeply, according to an interview izvestia conducted with finance ministry official y. zemskov
zemskov said taxes will be increased on high salaries because cooperatives in those cases are paying out in salaries what the government would like them to spend improving and expanding their services
under mikhail s. gorbachev's reforms, soviets can get permission to form cooperatives to produce goods and provide services outside the state-run economy. the cooperatives must be approved by local governments, but otherwise operate outside state control
the tax rate now is between 2 percent and 3 percent for cooperatives in their first year and up to 10 percent after their third year
taxes of cooperative members will start going up sharply after an income of 500 rubles a month, zemskov said. the tax on an income of 1,000 rubles, ($1,600) will be 270.20 rubles and on an income of 2,000 rubles ($3,200) will be 53.5 percent
he said the tax eventually reaches 90 percent, but did not say what the income threshold was for that tax
zemskov said local governments will be allowed to keep the money levied in income taxes on cooperatives to provide them with an incentive to help cooperatives develop
crew members of a high-tech, 28-foot rowboat that crossed the treacherous strait between south america and antarctica said friday they encountered squalls that tossed three of them into the turbulent sea
why did we do it?'' said jay morrison, 34. ``because nobody had ever done it before. that's a pretty good reason.''
rowing most of the way, morrison and three colleagues crossed the stormy drake passage between tierra del fuego, the southern tip of south america, and antactica in a 600-mile voyage that ended march 7
you should see what it's like to try to walk on land after being thrown around at sea for 12 days,'' said ned gillette, who organized the voyage and led an similar expedition last year that was scuttled by ice
until we made it, we weren't really sure it could be done,'' said gillette, of stowe, vt. ``i didn't think we'd expire on the trip, but i didn't know where we'd end up.''
the expedition in the $17,000 red boat jokingly dubbed the sea tomato mixed raw adventure with high-technology precision. the expedition was financed by corporate sponsors
while crew members bailed flooded cabins and rowed the boat through 100-foot swells, a massachusetts weather station each day fed the expedition forecasts, and the boat's location was tracked by satellite
after waiting nearly a month for proper weather, the expedition almost ended in disaster off the chilean coast feb. 22, just hours after leaving under sail
a heavy squall erupted and swamped the craft, sending gillette overboard. gillette, an experienced moutaineer, was saved by a line fastened to the boat, as were two other crew members who were washed overboard later in the trip
three days out, the crew took down the sails and began rowing in shifts, sometimes all night. they went about 2.6 mph on average, or about as fast as a person walks
sometimes an albatross would land alongside,'' said gillette. ``it would paddle along and watch us. we would outdistance it _ sometimes.''
the team brought provisions for 25 days. ``we didn't know how long we'd be out,'' said gillette. ``there was a lot of uncertainty.''
the sea tomato, stripped of some expensive equipment, now rests on king george island in antarctica as a gift to the chilean government
i kind of hope they leave it there,'' said gillette. ``it did its job to get us there. it would be fitting it keep it there.''
the mayor and the communist party chief of a city in azerbaijan where at least 32 people died in ethnic rioting were fired thursday, reports from soviet armenia said
those dismissed were said to be the mayor and communist party chief of sumgait, azerbaijan, where riots broke out feb. 28 between azerbaijanis and ethnic armenians
in another development, the editor of glasnost magazine reported a police raid thursday he said was linked to the publication's coverage of ethnic violence in armenia and neighboring azerbaijan
sergei grigoryants, a former political prisoner and editor of glasnost, said six carloads of police descended on the office in kratovo, a town about 15 miles southeast of moscow
he said by telephone that uniformed and plainclothes officers spent more than two hours checking editors' papers and taking photographs
grigoryants said they wanted to search the office but did not have a warrant. the five editors present would not let police into the back half of the office where editorial work is done, he said
the house was completely surrounded by police cars,'' grigoryants said, adding that many police were involved. he said they did not detain anyone or take anything from the office
grigoryants founded glasnost, named for soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev's policy of more openness, last june and has unsuccessfully sought official approval for it
gamlet kocharyan, a member of the governing council of the kafar, armenia, said by telephone the dismissals at sumgait were announced in a television broadcast from yerevan, capital of the armenian republic
armenian activists say the victims in sumgait were armenians killed by azeris, the dominant group in neighboring azerbaijan. most azeris are shiite moslems and armenians are predominantly christian
unrest in the southern republics began with armenian demonstrations pressing for nagorno-karabakh, an area of azerbaijan that has an armenian majority, to be annexed by armenia
kocharyan identified the men fired as muslim zade, communist party chief in sumgait, and mayor tavakkula yagub ogly mamedov
the report said they would be replaced by the premier of the nakhichevansky autonomous republic in azerbaijan and a factory manager from sumgait, according to kocharyan
baku radio reported earlier that mamedov was fired for ``serious shortcomings in the work of maintaining appropriate law and order and discipline in the city, and for the lack of political foresight he has shown which has resulted in tragic consequences.''
the television report also said a commission had been formed to search for witnesses to the rioting in sumgait, kocharyan said
grigoryants is armenian and has reported regularly to western correspondents in moscow about the ethnic unrest in armenia and azerbaijan
he traveled to yerevan to witness a memorial procession march 8 for those killed in sumgait. he and fellow editor andrei shelkov, who went to sumgait, held a news conference last friday for foreign journalists who have not been permitted to visit the area
according to grigoryants, the police visit to the glasnost offices was ``undoubtedly'' part of a campaign of reprisals against him
on saturday, shelkov was attacked on a moscow trolley bus by a person who could not be identified, grigoryants said
official soviet media have criticized grigoryants. police made two raids in august on the editorial office, but did not take anything or arrest anyone
in october, police confiscated about 70 copies they said were printed illegally on state-owned equipment
here is a summary of the latest developments friday involving nicaragua, honduras and the united states:
the honduran army began moving about 2,000 soldiers into the border jungles with orders to drive out nicaraguans still on the honduran side. honduran officials said the nicaraguan troops had crossed the border in pursuit of u.s.-backed contra rebels and that about 1,000 remained in honduran territory
honduras gave the sandinistas 24 hours to get their soldiers out of the country, but the ultimatum did not say when the time period began
the u.s. embassy said about 800 american paratroopers were dropped onto palmerola air base friday morning. they are among 3,200 american troops sent to honduras. the defense department says the u.s. troops likely will be in central america for about 10 days
reagan administration sources said honduras asked the united states friday for helicopter support in ferrying honduran troops to the border area. the sources said the request was likely to be approved. white house chief of staff howard baker said president reagan would give ``most careful'' consideration to any request from honduras for troops to help repel nicaraguan forces
nicaragua told the united nations security council that u.s. troops were sent to honduras to create a crisis to justify military action against nicaragua. the united states countered that the troop movement was ``a measured response'' in support of the territorial integrity of honduras
secretary-general javier perez de cuellar was studying nicaragua's request to send an observer team to its border with honduras on a fact-finding mission
a bipartisan group of senators proposed a $48 million package of new aid to the contras, including renewed authority for the cia to deliver previously stockpiled weapons
supporters said the proposal was designed to trigger negotiations in congress and aimed at quick passage of an emergency infusion of aid to replace supplies lost or expended during the past week's heavy fighting
nicaragua said it had called off its offensive to roust contra rebels from camps along the honduran border, but was maintaining combat positions. the defense ministry maintained no nicaraguan troops had crossed the border, but a military source indicated privately they had
the sandinista government continued plans for cease-fire talks with the contras next monday, but the rebels were considering a boycott
more than 300 people were arrested in demonstrations around the united states to protest the deployment of army troops in honduras. the arrests were mostly for blocking traffic or disorderly conduct
the following graphics are available in ap access
in this menu each graphic's file name (all caps) is followed by a brief description, time of input into the ap access host computer and the sau column measurement. all times are eastern standard

airlift, how usaf airlifts troops, material to places, 3-18, 930p, 3c x 5~''
snapshot, interest rates, commodity and stock indexes, friday's close, week ago, year ago (table), 3-18, 930p, 2c x 4 |''
flier, most popular frequent flier awards by big us carriers (table!(adv. 3-21-88), 3-18, 930p,2c x 3~''
market, 3 daily and 1 weekly stock chart, plus data, 3-18,7p,standard.
mortrates, fixed, adj rates weekly, 12@25@87-3@18@88, 3-18, 7p, 2c x 3}''
blacks, 2 grfx: 1-black progress logo; 2-black and white income, unemp. compared (chart), 3-18, 7p, 2c x 1''
ncaa updated version o9f 3-17 basketbal games. 3-17,745a. standard
honduras, maps locate honduras bases for use by u.s. troops, including air bases improved to handle big jets; spots units bases in us; 3-17 145p, 2c x 6[
nica-us, chronology of us-nicaraguan relations from 7-17 to 3-17, 3-17 145p, 3c x 7[

filed added:
ncaa
mortrates
market(friday)
snapshot
flier
airlift

files deleted:
iditarod
econcharts
colombia
market (thurs)
nica-us
palmerola
uspanama
   
a former wedtech corp. executive testified friday that he was told attorney general edwin meese iii interceded with the pentagon on the defense contractor's behalf over a $24 million navy contract
the allegation came at the racketeering trial of rep. mario biaggi and six others charged in a series of bribery and influence peddling schemes involving wedtech
the government's first witness, ex-wedtech official mario moreno, said he met with a close friend of meese, san francisco lawyer e. robert wallach, in december 1983. meese at the time was presidential counselor
moreno said wedtech had been notified it would be awarded the less lucrative part of a navy contract to build bridge pontoons, and he asked wallach to get meese ``to change the navy's mind.''
moreno said wallach told him, ``mr. meese said he would talk to mr. weinberger,'' referring to then-defense secretary caspar weinberger. moreno testified that he understood weinberger would call then-navy secretary john lehman
moreno said that in january 1984, wedtech received approval making it eligible for the entire pontoon contract, which it signed in april 1984
moreno first described meese's alleged intervention in an affidavit disclosed in october at a senate hearing. at the time, meese and weinberger said through spokesmen they had no recollection of the action described by moreno
moreno previously testified at the wedtech trial that wallach told him that meese had also interceded on wedtech's behalf with the commerce department over a federal financing package
wedtech, a $100 million-a-year defense contractor before declaring bankruptcy in 1986, grew from a small new york machine shop through a series of no-bid defense contracts. prosecutors claim wedtech falsely portrtayed itself as a minority company to get contracts
wallach, meese's former personal lawyer, is under indictment on charges of taking bribes from wedtech officials for trying to influence meese and others
in december, a special prosecutor in washington said there was insufficient evidence to charge meese in the wedtech case
moreno is one of four ex-wedtech officials who have pleaded guilty to bribing public officials and to other crimes. resolution or vote, additional quotes, corrects name of nicaraguan envoy to delia stead dalia and courtesy title to ms. stead mrs. no pickup</note>
the united states and honduras told the security council friday that nicaraguan troops had invaded honduras. nicaragua claimed the sending of u.s. troops to honduras signaled a plot for direct u.s. military action against nicaragua
nicaraguan envoy rita delia casco denied sandinista troops entered honduran territory. ``what they have said is mere lies,'' said ms. casco, the foreign ministry's director of international organizations
we (nicaraguans) can't withdraw from nicaragua,'' she told a news conference after the emergency session ended. ``the military actions we have taken are limited to the defense of our territory and sovereignty.''
the council adjourned without a resolution or a vote and was to decide whether to resume discussions at some future date
nicaragua's sandinista government had asked for the meeting to protest the sending of 3,200 u.s. military personnel to honduras thursday and friday
ms. casco said a u.s. congressional delegation was welcome to visit nicaragua and would be escorted to key border areas to see the situation
after denouncing the united states in an address to the council, ms. casco shook hands and chatted with u.s. ambassador herbert s. okun, who had accused nicaragua of invading honduras and rejecting democracy
okun, deputy chief of the u.s. mission, said sending u.s. troops for military exercises in honduras was a measured response requested by the honduran government
the u.s. force ``does not constitute either a threat or the use of force against nicaragua,'' he said
okun also claimed the santinistas were trying to destroy u.s.-backed rebels, known as contras, and stifle democratic debate. many of the rebels operate from bases in honduras, which borders nicaragua
u.n. secretary-general javier perez de cuellar is considering a nicaraguan request to send a fact-finding mission, coordinated with the organization of american states, to the nicaraguan-honduran border
honduran ambassador jorge ramon hernandez told the council: ``if nicaragua withdraws the troops which even today are in honduras, that would be proof of its commitment to peace
we denounce this invasion as the expansionistic, aggressive attitude of nicaragua, not only to my country but to others. it is trying to disrupt the whole, regional peace process.''
he accused nicaragua of launching a ``broad-ranging offensive in flagrant violation of honduran territorial integrity'' and said honduras had requested u.s. assistance
ms. casco claimed the reagan administration created an artificial crisis and was out to justify direct military action against nicaragua
okun said sending the troops was ``a measured response designed to show our staunch support for the democratic government of honduras at a time when its territorial integrity is being violated by the sandinista army.''
he said the u.s. troops would be involved in exercises away from the area of border hostilities
ms. casco told the council washington wants to sabotage central american cease-fire talks and the peace plan signed in august by the presidents of five central american countries. the plan calls for an end to outside aid to insurgents
this is a crisis artificially created by the u.s. administration in its design to find justification for the continuation and extension of its warlike policy in central america,'' she said
the u.s. administration has considered a series of options, including the possibility of direct military action against nicaragua in order to save its mercenaries (the rebels) who have been strategically defeated _ politically and militarily.''
in asking for the meeting, nicaragua's acting ambassador, julio icaza gallard, said the 15-member council should ``consider the serious situation created by the escalation of threats and aggression against my country and by the u.s. decision to send american troops to honduran territory.''
council members are the united states, britain, china, france and the soviet union, which as permanent members have veto power, and yugoslavia, algeria, argentina, brazil, italy, japan, nepal, senegal, west germany and zambia
a father told police he stuffed his newborn baby into a toilet and later threw him into a lake, but authorities concluded the child had died in the womb and said no murder charges will be filed
however, the case has prompted several tips about pregnant women whose newborns have vanished, and detectives are opening investigations into three cases as a result, said tarrant county sheriff's detective wayne boggus
the so-called benbrook lake case was solved by a tip from an acquaintance of the mother, authorities said. the acquaintance never saw the baby after the mother's pregnancy ended
sheriff's investigators confronted the 22-year-old mother and 24-year-old husband and they gave detailed statements. the couple's names were withheld
the woman gave birth feb. 16 in her bathroom. the frightened husband, apparently unaware the child was stillborn, stuffed the body into the toilet and took a nap next to his bloodied wife, the father told police wednesday
he said when he woke up, he hoped it was all just a nightmare,'' said boggus. the father said he found the baby dead, and he put the body in a bag with heavy rocks and tossed it into lake, boggus said
the man's wife, still weak, did not knew what was in the bag, the man said. it was two weeks before he told her what he did with the baby, authorities said
the only explanation we got from him was that he `freaked out,''' boggus said. ``he said he almost fainted himself. i assume he was pretty scared and confused.''
a fisherman hooked the bag march 7 in a nearby creek. on march 8, the county medical examiner's office ruled that the baby was choked by his umbilical cord in the womb
with the natural-death ruling, murder charges cannot be brought against the couple, robert hester, assistant tarrant county prosecutor, said thursday
hester said authorities may charge the man with abuse of a corpse, a misdemeanor punishable by a maximum of a year in jail and a $2,000 fine
because of a plea through the news media for information on the benbrook lake case, detectives are looking into other cases. police declined to give details of those cases
eds: organizers of the writers guild awards banquet have changed the time at which they will make the list of winners available. we will update am-writers awards, a0819, once the winners are announced, which is now expected after 11:30 p.m. est. update with reports on nicaraguan helicopter; inserts 2 grafs after penultimate graf, the colonel ... to update with casualty figures. deletes redundant 13th graf pvs: honduran warplanes ...</note>
government radio condemned border air raids by honduras, which it said struck inside nicaragua, and exhorted listeners friday against ``american imperialism and the threat of military intervention.''
a headline in barricada, the sandinista newspaper, said: ``the order of the day: intensify combat.''
honduras said the raids thursday were confined to its own territory, aimed at nicaraguan soldiers it said crossed the frontier the day before in pursuit of rebels known as contras
reagan administration officials said a nicaraguan helicopter was destroyed in the raid, but nicaragua denied it
however, a defense ministry spokesman said friday that rebel anti-aircraft fire hit a sandinista helicopter thursday near san andres de bocay, the region bombed by honduras. he did not not elaborate
later friday, maj. rosa pasos, the chief defense ministry spokeswoman, called the associated press to deny any helicopter had been hit in the region
the sandinista government continued with plans for cease-fire talks with the contras next monday, but the u.s.-supported rebels were considering a boycott
cease-fires in the region's civil wars, and a ban on the use of one country's territory for attacks on another, are provisions of the peace plan signed aug. 7 by the five central american presidents
nicaragua said it had called off its offensive to drive contras from camps along the honduran border wednesday but was maintaining combat positions
although the defense ministry said none of the soldiers entered honduras, a nicaraguan military source indicated privately that they had
honduran officials and the reagan administration say sandinista soldiers crossed the rugged, ill-defined border about 175 miles from managua
on thursday, the united states started flying 3,200 soldiers of the 82nd airborne division and 7th light infantry to honduras in a show of support. defense secretary said they would be on a training exercise there for 10 days but would stay out of combat
president daniel ortega said nicaraguan troops would take on the americans if necessary
he hedged the question of whether nicaraguan soldiers crossed the coco river in the isolated northern region, as he has when previous incursions were reported
here the question is not if army troops penetrated honduran territory or not, but that we have dozens of camps of mercenary forces in honduran territory ... tolerated by the honduran government,'' he said thursday
journalists taken to the area earlier thursday saw and felt a bomb explode at the confluence of the bocay and coco rivers. lt. col. javier carrion, commander of the offensive against the contras, said two bombs fell in nicaraguan territory and one on the honduran side
carrion told reporters in a jungle clearing at san andres de bocay that 4,500 soldiers were involved in the sweep through an area running from central nicaragua to the frontier. he said they had air support from soviet-supplied helicopter gunships and an-26 propeller-driven planes carrying bombs
he said sandinista troops had killed 92 contras and wounded 300, at the cost of 34 soldiers dead and 68 wounded
the colonel said the purpose was to destroy contra bases in the border area, which is about 40 miles from an important mining region the rebels attacked in december
the defense ministry said 17 soldiers and 15 rebels were killed between tuesday and friday in fighting in the central province of matagalpa, in zelaya on the caribbean coast and jinotega, where san andres de bocay is located
civilian sources, who spoke on condition of anonymity for security reasons, said 17 soldiers were killed and eight wounded in two clashes friday in the central province of chontales. six rebels were killed, they said
honduras said about 2,000 nicaraguan soldiers crossed the border, and a high-ranking military officer said about half of them still were there friday. departure</head> opposition, other detail. picks up 5th graf pvs, panama's nominal . .. with minor editing to trim and conform.</note>
the government controlled by gen. manuel antonio noriega declared a state of emergency throughout panama friday, but the opposition responded with a call for an indefinite general strike
the emergency decree appeared aimed at forcing reopening of banks and other businesses, closed for three weeks during an economic and political crisis that has brought panama to the brink of bankruptcy
in washington, sources in the reagan administration said william walker, a deputy assistant secretary of state for latin american affairs, had gone to panama to discuss possible terms for the military strongman's departure
one official, who spoke on condition he remain anonymous, said walker would tell noriega the united states will not seek his extradition on drug trafficking charges if he seeks asylum in a third country. noriega says he is innocent of all charges
spain has been mentioned as a possible place of refuge for noriega
friday's emergency decree, technically called a ``state of urgency'' by panama's constitution, permits the government to suspend a wide range of civil liberties, including freedom of speech and assembly and the right to private property. it was seen, however, more as a maneuver to get the banks to reopen
the national civic crusade, a coalition of opposition groups seeking noriega's ouster, said it was calling a general strike as of monday ``to put a halt to the catastrophic national situation.''
aurelio barria, foremost leader of the crusade, also acknowledged receiving a message from noriega through a third party seeking ``a panamanian solution'' to the crisis
he and other crusade leaders declined to give details. they said they would not negotiate with noriega ``because he is a liar and cannot be trusted.''
panama's nominal civilian chief of state, manuel solis palma, said friday the government declared the emergency because ``there is a real situation of undeclared war'' against panama by the united states and by political foes at home
the emergency does not automatically suspend civil rights, but gives the government the right to do so by decree. a government spokesman said measures to implement friday's decree ``will follow in due time.''
luis h. moreno, a former member of the national banking commission, said he was sure the emergency was aimed at forcing reopening of the 118 foreign and locally owned banks that make panama a major financial center
he told the associated press, ``i think that's the only reason for the decree.''
the communique said, ``panama is the object of an attack on its economy by the united states in coordination with national political groups desperate to grab the government by force.''
in other developments friday:
_angry dockworkers moved huge blockades across the entrance to balboa port near the panama canal to fight off an army takeover by troops loyal to noriega
_noriega fired his intelligence chief and four other officers in an apparent purge of his fractured defense forces, two days after a coup attempt against him failed
_the pentagon said panamanian authorities arrested four u.s. military police officers in the capital and held them several hours. the newspaper critica said the americans were carrying handguns and ``military implements'' when detained in an area ``where daily activities disturbing the public order'' had occurred
the government blamed the closing of the banks on the ``arbitrary freezing of funds of the national bank of panama'' on deposit in the united states
about $50 million in official panamanian funds have been tied up in legal actions brought by attorneys for eric arturo delvalle, who was deposed as president by noriega feb. 26. delvalle, ousted after he tried to fire noriega, still is recognized as president by the united states
the united states has cut off all economic and military aid to panama and applied other economic sanctions, including withholding of $6.5 million in monthly panama canal fees due this week
panama was last under a state of emergency less than a year ago
it decreed that emergency on june 10 after the government's foes staged demonstrations aimed at noriega's ouster. it was lifted on june 29
the next day, a pro-noriega mob attacked the u.s. embassy in panama city, stoning it and splashing it with red paint as police stood by
under the state of emergency, the government can jail citizens indefinitely without formal charge, search their homes without warrants, open their mail and restrict their travel
moreno said bankers and the banking commission have been trying for more than two weeks to reach agreement on a plan to reopen the banks, which were closed by a government order march 3. many closed their doors days earlier fearing a run on deposits
the problem is one of lack of confidence ...,'' moreno said. ``if the government forces the banks to reopen, the banks will not have enough cash to cover the demand for withdrawals.''
friday's communique also blamed panamanian business groups for the economic crisis, accusing them of hoarding currency, closing shops and raising prices
in washington, an administration official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said two panamanian pilots defected to the united states thursday. he also said noriega received military equipment from cuba and money from libya recently. he presented no evidence and the report could not be confirmed
the failure of the cash-starved panamanian government to pay its workers has led to violent demonstrations
panamanians lined up at public parks and pay stations friday to receive partial payment and bags of food from the government
at balboa port, about a mile outside the panama canal, about 300 striking dockworkers moved car-sized containers across the port entrance to battle an army takeover ordered thursday by the government. the men are demanding to get paid
no vehicles or machinery were passing in or out
ports at panama city and colon closed monday when dockworkers struck. the panama canal commission said the shutdowns had no effect on its operations
the military was also ordered to take over electrical, water and telephone companies, airports, and several government ministries, all struck by workers demanding salaries
in firing the five officers friday, noriega gave no reason
col. bernardo barrera had been in charge of intelligence for the 15,000-member defense forces, which includes panama's military and police
a source close to the defense forces said barrera might have been faulted for not knowing in advance of wednesday's coup attempt
the four american military police arrested thursday night in panama city were identified by critica as danny h. feltro, william jerry, virts richard and tammy markley
francisco artola, vice president of the opposition national authentic party, said his radio station in changuinola, bocas del toro province, was raided and closed friday by defense force guards
japanese officials were sitting in their embassy studying a major senate trade document while house members were forced to wait hours to get their copies, an influential lawmaker complained thursday
an irate rep. william frenzel, r-minn., told a closed-door caucus of house trade lawmakers he finally obtained a copy of the paper by messenger from the japanese as a courtesy three hours before it arrived from the senate
frenzel's remarks to house members of a house-senate conference committee drafting a sweeping trade bill were confirmed by his administrative assistant, pat eveland, who also handles trade legislation for him
we think it would be nice if the senate would decide to give us the trade offer first before the private sector and the press,'' she said when asked what frenzel told the caucus. his aides said the congressman himself was not available to discuss the matter
the document was a compromise offer from senate members of the conference committee. it was designed to resolve conflicts between house and senate versions of the 1,000-page trade bill, primarily sections dealing with unfair practices by the japanese and other trading partners
among other things, it contained the senate's proposal to erase the from the bill the controversial trade plan sponsored by democratic presidential hopeful richard a. gephardt, d-mo. his proposal, calling for 10 percent yearly rollbacks in japanese trade surpluses, is contained only in the house bill
in place of gephardt's plan, the senate is proposing its own, so-called super 301 proposal, which would require the u.s. trade representative to draw up a list of japanese barriers to american products and then either negotiate an end to them or retaliate
eveland said that she was on the telephone with a japanese embassy official early wednesday morning, discussing the senate's offer, when to her surprise ``it became evident that they had a copy of it.''
she said that she asked the japanese for a copy and that they immediately duplicated theirs and sent it by messenger to frenzel's office on capitol hill. she said a version was not available from the senate finance committee until 12:30 p.m. wednesday
just how the japanese managed to obtain the offer remained unclear, eveland said. several copies were distributed to reporters who worked late in the senate press gallery on tuesday night
meanwhile, rep. tom downey, d-n.y., said he also was among those who were forced to wait and finally had to go out of channels to get his copy
a spokeswoman for nicaragua's contra rebels said thursday that peace talks scheduled to begin monday with the sandinista government are still on despite a reported clash at the nicaraguan-honduran border
the government of daniel ortega and contra representatives are scheduled to begin three days of talks in the southern nicaraguan town of sapoa near the border with costa rica
intense fighting continued thursday between the rebels and 2,000 sandinista soldiers in honduras, said marta sacasa, spokeswoman for the nicaraguan resistance, a contra umbrella group
unless there is an official decision otherwise, the peace talks will go on despite the contras' weakened military position, she said. some resistance leaders already have left the u.s. for the scheduled talks
the intention of the sandinistas was to weaken our position at the negotiating table,'' ms. sacasa said. ``it's also timed to coincide with the end of united states aid.''
nicaragua's leftist sandinista government said its troops were not in honduras
but the reagan administration said sandinista forces were in honduras and were threatening to overrun contra bases, and it dispatched 3,200 u.s. combat troops
the united states troops did not go to honduras to involve themselves with the fighting in any way, so we have no comment,'' ms. sacasa said
preliminary reports indicated 10 contra rebels were killed and 56 wounded in the sandinista offensive, she said. ``they knew we would not be resupplied, ... but our determination and morale are unwavering and high,'' ms. sacasa said
a woman convicted of murder for putting her infant daughter in a washing machine was sentenced to life in prison thursday
dorothy humphrey, 26, also received 32 months to 4 years in prison from recorder's court judge michael sapala for child cruelty
humphrey was found guilty march 4 of second-degree murder. she testified she put her 3-year-old daughter, felicia, in the washer june 29 to cleanse her of urine and sexual molestation by her uncles. the girl died the next day
humphrey said she didn't mean to harm the girl but had become increasingly frustrated at being unable to prevent her from wetting her pants. soviet temporary residence, details.</note>
a soviet actor has asked for political asylum in france and will be allowed to stay in the country while his request is considered, a foreign ministry spokeswoman said thursday
in madrid, the independent daily el pais cited police sources as saying alexi maslov, a member of the taganka theater company, flew to paris wednesday shortly after being granted asylum in france
but the french foreign ministry spokeswoman, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the actor ``is expected within the next few days.'' she said his asylum request was under review
she said maslov would be treated as a political refugee and would be granted a temporary resident alien permit while his case is reviewed by french courts
el pais said maslov had been in the care of madrid police since shortly after he arrived in madrid on march 14 with the rest of the taganka troupe to take part in the international theater festival of madrid
he had been scheduled to perform thursday in the play ``the mother'' by maxim gorki
taganka director nikolai l. dupak and a soviet embassy official had reported maslov missing tuesday after he failed to return to the hotel where the troupe was staying, the newspaper said
the soviet embassy had no comment on the report
despite a scriptwriters' strike, producers of the new ``the smothers brothers comedy hour'' decided thursday to make six of the tv shows even though they have only three union-written scripts
cbs announced the hour-long show starring tom and dick smothers would debut march 30 at 8 p.m. production plans had been postponed by the strike by 9,000 tv and film scriptwriters belonging to the writers guild of america
the writers went on strike march 7 against the alliance of motion picture and television producers over creative control and residuals from syndication and distribution abroad
no new talks are scheduled. a session was held with a federal mediator over the weekend
producers say their final offer is a $50 million increase; the union says the package would represent a $37 million loss to its members
a cbs spokesman who talked on condition he not be identified said six ``smothers brothers'' shows were planned, and three scripts were in hand
he would not say what would happen if the strike were still in progress when it came time for the fourth show
script contain not only dialogue and monologue but lighting and stage directions. under the guild contract, not even cue cards can be drawn up without violating the strike
the ``smothers brothers comedy hour'' is a follow-up to a well-received reunion of the old smothers brothers cast earlier this season
the smothers brothers first comedy-variety show for cbs was canceled in 1969 after running into a long stream of censorship problems
union spokeswoman cheryl rhoden said the guild had no immediate comment on the decision to go ahead with the program
one of the show's producers, ken kragen, did not immediately return a message seeking comment
wga members resumed picketing thursday, with about 800 sign-carrying members showing up at the cbs-mtm complex in the studio city section of los angeles. collaborator</head>
canada has begun efforts to deport a dutch immigrant convicted in his native land of collaborating with the nazis during the german occupation of world war ii
the office of secretary of state david crombie said thursday it has moved to strip jacob luitjens, a retired botany teacher at the university of british columbia, of his canadian citizenship
luitjens, in his late 60s, is fighting the attempt in the federal court. he declined comment to reporters from his home in vancouver, but five years ago luitjens denied allegations he helped round up people resisting nazi rule
crombie's spokesman, jocelyn francoeur, said full details cannot be disclosed because the case is pending in court
but nazi-hunter sol littman, canadian representative of the simon wiesenthal center, hailed the government's action as a breakthrough in catching up with war-crime suspects who entered canada decades ago
we've been after this guy for years and years,'' he said. ``we know the dutch government wanted him very badly.''
based on information from witnesses and other sources, littman alleged that luitjens and his family belonged to the dutch national socialist party before the war and that luitjens and his father volunteered for the auxiliary police during the nazi occupation
littman said luitjens was directly involved in the deaths of a 19-year-old member of the dutch underground and a german deserter
he said that after the war luitjens fled to paraguay and lived in a mennonite colony, but was tried in his absence by a dutch war crimes court in 1948 and convicted of treason
treason is not an extraditable offense in canada. the government rejected previous dutch requests for luitjens, who emigrated here in 1961 and retired from teaching four years ago
the toronto star quoted justice minister ray hnatyshyn as saying that because of the law, deportation, rather than a trial in canada, ``may be the only option available to us.''
the government set up a war crimes unit in the justice department last year, based on the report of a special commission headed by judge jules deschenes
unlike the u.s. office of special investigations, canada chose to concentrate on trying suspects here, rather than deporting or extraditing them as deschenes also recommended
the deschenes report cited 20 cases requiring urgent action and an additional 218 in need of further investigation
under canadian law, citizenship can be revoked if it was obtained fraudulently or by withholding facts that would have disqualified the applicant _ such as criminal convictions
even if luitjens loses the citizenship battle, he can appeal deportation through the courts. the law normally requires deportation to the country from which a person arrived, in this case paraguay rather than the netherlands
amoco corp. will install steel ``suspenders'' on its landmark lakeside skyscraper to ensure that the white marble facade stays put on blustery days in the windy city, an executive said thursday
marble slabs sheathing the world's fourth-tallest building are starting to curl or bow after 15 years, said shelby pierce, amoco's engineering manager. the 275-pound slabs are 1\-inch thick, and measure 4-feet-2 by 3-feet-9
if the straps don't work, amoco may have to strip the stark, 1,136-foot building near lake michigan of its gleaming facade, he said
next week, workers will begin installing bolted-in stainless steel straps, 2 inches wide, at one corner of the building at a minimum cost of $1 million
we're looking at an area where the most severe bows occur. the southeast corner gets most exposure to sun and thermal cycles and heavy wind,'' pierce said. ``it's almost like a belt and suspenders.''
hopefully it wouldn't look like a checkerboard,'' he said
pierce said the company noticed the problem in 1979. by november, the condition of the marble began to get worse
there are two philosophies,'' pierce said. ``one philosophy is that as marble bows, it's an indication of loss of strength. another philosophy is that's not true.''
our particular difficulty is that we have four different grades of marble on the building,'' he said
while workers spend six weeks reinforcing the southeast corner, engineers will check the rest of the building to see if more drastic measures are needed, he said
a leftist urban guerrilla group says polling places in sunday's elections are ``military objectives'' and is warning people to stay away from them
the armed forces said guerrillas killed the mayor of a northern town on thursday, and the governing christian democratic party reported a mayoral candidate was kidnapped
the warning was issued wednesday night by the pedro pablo castillo urban command, a unit of the people's revolutionary army, one of five groups battling the u.s.-backed government
the five groups, united in the farabundo marti national liberation front, have rejected the legislative and municipal elections. the rebels insist that peace must be achieved before any election is held
they declared a nationwide ban on transportation as of today in an effort to disrupt the voting
the statement was given to a local television crew that was taken blindfolded to a guerrilla safe-house. channel 6 broadcast part of an interview and provided the associated press with a transcript of the rest thursday
the broadcast did not show the guerrillas
the defense ministry said this week that about 53,000 of its 56,000 troops will be deployed to provide election security. defense minister gen. eugenio vides casanova said his men could guarantee secure voting in 244 of the nation's 262 municipalities
the guerrilla document advises people ``to avoid gathering at polling places, because, due to the presence of troops, they ... will be considered military objectives by our units.''
it also called on filling stations to stop selling gasoline and warned that the ones remaining open ``will be declared military objectives.''
the leader of the urban cell, known as commander ester, told the tv crew: ``the urban commando cells are going to take a series of actions to repudiate the elections and to repudiate u.s. intervention in our country.''
the guerrillas recently began urban units, and it was not clear if the statement covered the one group or the entire guerrilla front
the united states provided almost $600 million in aid to el salvador last year, more than the amount given any other country in the western hemisphere
at least 65,000 people have died since the guerrillas took up arms in 1979
the armed forces press office said guerrillas killed mayor sergio romero of azacualpa on thursday. it said in a communique that the rebels then went to san miguel de mercedes, also in northern chalatenango province, and burned the mayor's office and the post office
the christian democrats said mayoral candidate faustino flores of coatepeque in santa ana province was kidnapped wednesday night. the party said guerrilla leaflets were found at flores' house
the guerrilla front says the elections are not legitimate because they cannot be free and fair in wartime
the rebels demand a share of power in return for laying down their arms. the government rejects this
the security council will meet in urgent session friday on the nicaraguan-honduran border crisis and on the dispatch of u.s. troops to honduras
nicaragua sought the meeting at president daniel ortega's request, diplomats said. envoys of the united states, nicaragua and honduras were to speak. there were no immediate plans for a resolution or a vote in the 15-member council, the highest u.n. body
washington has said the 3,000 u.s. troops it was sending to honduras were to engage in joint military exercises with the hondurans
honduras complained that sandinista troops from neighboring nicaragua entered honduras in pursuit of contra rebels. president reagan has called it an invasion by nicaraguan forces
nicaragua and panama used a council debate on british military maneuvers in the falkland islands thursday to condemn u.s. military activities in central america
nicaragua, having suffered pillage and spoilage by english buccaneers who pillaged our coast, is victim today of the threats and aggression of another american state,'' nicaragua's acting ambassador, julio icaza gallardo, told the council
nicaragua denounces once again this gunboat policy which reflects disdain for our dignity and rights.''
britain and argentina fought a 74-day war over the falklands in 1982, lost by argentina
panama's ambassador, george eduardo ritter, drew a parallel between the british claim on the falklands and u.s. control over the panama canal zone
israeli prime minister yitzhak shamir warned american jews on thursday not to compare palestinian protests in the occupied territories to a civil rights struggle
these are another expression of the arab refusal to accept israel, to coexist with us, and to recognize that israel is a permanent feature in the region,'' shamir said
the protesters ``cry, `palestine is arab,' and openly declare that all of palestine is theirs,'' shamir told about 1,500 members of the jewish community at a dedication of a cornerstone for a museum commemorating the holocaust
these are not passive civil rights marches,'' he said
shamir, fresh from his meeting with president reagan, secretary of state george p. shultz and congressional leaders, reiterated his opposition to an american plan for peace in the middle east that calls for an international conference
shamir, his address punctuated by enthusiastic applause, said the proposal would play into the hands of the soviets and arabs, who he said are trying to bypass direct talks with israel
we are for direct negotiations, without preconditions, for open talks at which each side will present its views and claims on an equal footing, without outside intervention,'' shamir said
he called on his audience to close ranks behind israel as it tries to quell rioting by palestinians on the west bank and the gaza strip, which israel has occupied since the 1967 mideast war
when unity breaks down, then our enemies exploit every critical statement to their own end,'' he said, referring apparently to criticism by some american jews of the israeli army's use of beatings and live ammunition to quell the riots
at least 100 palestinians have been killed in more than three months of violence, and hundreds wounded
shamir flew thursday from washington to los angeles, where he helped dedicate the cornerstone of the simon wiesenthal center's beit hashoah-museum of tolerance. the museum focuses on the extermination of jews by nazi germany
firestone tire &amp; rubber co. announced thursday it has agreed to a $2.6 billion takeover by no. 1 tire-maker bridgestone corp
firestone's board unanimously recommended shareholders accept an offer of $80 a share from tokyo-based bridgestone for all outstanding common shares
firestone also said its board recommended that shareholders reject a rival, unsolicited $58-a-share buyout offer from italian tiremaker pirelli spa
the bridgestone offer is subject to at least two-thirds of the shares being tendered and approval of the deal by firestone shareholders
the agreement was announced after the stock market closed. firestone stock dipped 62{ cents to $62.50 a share thursday on the new york stock exchange
firestone ranks fourth in tire sales worldwide, behind goodyear, michelin and bridgestone, according to industry estimates. carlucci back in washington. picks up 4th graf pvs, u.s. troops .. .</note>
defense secrtary frank c. carlucci said thursday he protested to his soviet counterpart nicaragua's alleged intrusion into honduras
carlucci said he and dmitri yazov briefly discussed the nicaragua-honduras dispute and that yazov ``made some attempt to defend the sandinista action.''
i would not characterize it as a vigorous defense,'' he added at a news conference in bern. carlucci arrived back in washington later thursday
u.s. troops arrived in honduras on thursday after the united states and honduras accused nicaraguan troops of entering the country in pursuit of u.s.-backed contra rebels. carlucci said he had endorsed the decision
carlucci described the three days of closed-door talks with yazov as ``cordial and businesslike,'' and said yazov invited him to moscow to continue their discussions at a later date
at a separate news conference, yazov termed the discussions, the first ever business session between u.s. and soviet defense chiefs, as ``quite candid and very useful.''
carlucci said that ``of course, there were a number of areas of disagreement.'' yazov said the kremlin ``does not harbor any illusions'' about a breakthrough in superpower relations
the two sides announced agreement that the chairman of the u.s. joint chiefs of staff, adm. william crowe, and the soviet chief of staff, marshal sergei akhromeyev, will meet soon to work out guidelines to prevent friction between u.s. and soviet forces
carlucci said he had not obtained the apology he sought for the fatal shooting by a soviet soldier of u.s. army maj. arthur nicholson in east germany three years ago
yazov said the incident occurred before he became defense minister last may and was being handled by the foreign ministry, according to carlucci
the two sides also discussed the u.s. proposed space-based defense plan and regional conflicts, including angola, cambodia and korea, carlucci said
yazov said in a statement that both sides agreed to hold further talks on each other's military doctrine and to consider an exchange of data
he called for launching all-european negotiations on conventional arms this year. confirming no schoolchildren were hurt.</note>
a single-engine plane crashed in a schoolyard thursday, but the pilot was the only one injured, authorities said
nobody was out in the playground at the time,'' said wilbur friend, air traffic manager for the federal aviation administration tower at meadows field. the pilot's name and the extent of his injuries were unavailable
friend said the pilot was making his final approach to meadows field, bakersfield's main commercial airport, when his engine lost power. he attempted an emergency landing
the plane crashed about a mile short of meadows field at the north beardsley school, which consists of kindergarten through third grade. no fire was reported
the national transportation safety board will investigate
members of congress are condemning nicaraguan president daniel ortega as they become convinced that he ordered a military incursion into neighboring honduras, and the action is renewing calls for u.s. aid to the anti-sandinista rebels
there's a feeling that mr. ortega is pretty damn stupid, indeed,'' said rep. dan glickman, d-kan., a member of the house intelligence committee who was briefed thursday on the border incursion against the contra rebels
this so-called final offensive against the contras may have made sense militarily, but it was bad politics,'' said sen. claiborne pell, chairman of the foreign relations committee
the foreign ministry delivered a formal protest to the united states, blaming it for a bombing raid near a sandinista army encampment just inside nicaragua by warplanes that screamed in from honduras
also thursday, president daniel ortega said his army was ready to ``combat and liquidate'' u.s. troops if america engage the sandinista forces
the united states has said american troops would not go near the area of hostilities
honduran warplanes rocketed and destroyed a nicaraguan army helicopter inside honduran territory and not in nicaragua as u.s. and sandinista government officials claimed, a honduran official said
the attack thursday came as the first of about 3,000 u.s. troops began arriving in honduras in a show of support for the government against reported incursions by nicaraguan soldiers up to three miles inside honduras
officials of the leftist sandinista government in nicaragua said hundreds of u.s.-backed contra rebels were driven from nicaragua into honduras by thousands of nicaraguan troops backed by bombers and helicopter gunships
the first step in bailing out texas' largest bank holding company is raising concerns about the long-term health of the fund that insures deposits in most of the nation's commercial banks
the federal deposit insurance corp. said thursday it was loaning $1 billion to banks owned by first republicbank corp. of dallas for six months in a move to reassure depositors worried about the banks' shaky real estate loans
the infusion represents only about 5 percent of the fdic's insurance fund, which backs deposits of $100,000 and less at 13,600 banks. but bank analysts believe it could turn out to be the first big hit of a bad year for the fund
illegal aliens are depressing wages and worsening working conditions for legal immigrants and native americans in low-skilled and low-wage jobs, the general accounting office says in a new report
citing empirical data and several case studies, the congressional watchdog agency said both u.s.-born and legally documented immigrants are being hurt, especially those working as janitors and farm and food processing workers
the report identified restaurants and companies producing auto parts, shoes and clothing as others that often employ illegal aliens
a bipartisan presidential commission today called for a wholesale transfer to the private sector of scores of government programs and services, ranging from operating prisons and airport control towers to delivering the mail
controversial even before its submission, the report by the presidential commission on privatization goes far beyond earlier proposals by president reagan to sell off federal assets and reduce the scope of government
government should not be in the business of business,'' declared commission chairman david linowes, a democrat who was to formally present the report to reagan today
two palestinians armed with a pistol and a kalashnikov assault rifle shot and wounded an israeli civilian in the first such attack in 14 weeks of anti-occupation unrest
also thursday, israeli media said secretary of state george p. shultz may return to the region by early april to promote his arab-israeli peace plan
israel radio said the army launched a sweep of suspected arab activists in the occupied lands in an effort to curb possible riots on ``land day,'' march 30, a day of protests and demands for arab rights. it said dozens were arrested
opposition leaders expressed dismay that widespread protests have been unable to remove strongman gen. manuel antonio noriega, and many now openly say only a u.s. military intervention can do so
it is something we, as panamanians, do not want to see, but the legal conditions for military intervention exist,'' said a leader of an opposition party who, like others interviewed for this article, spoke on condition he not be identified
this plaintive request is heard often among those opposed to noriega, who survived what appeared to be a poorly organized military coup headed by his chief of police
gov. evan mecham, his honesty challenged on the witness stand, shouted he's ``tired of this kind of baloney,'' but acknowledged ordering arizona's top lawman not to cooperate in an investigation of an alleged death threat
the first-term republican governor got into more than one shouting match with prosecutor paul eckstein during his second day of testimony at his impeachment trial thursday, as eckstein sought to damage mecham's credibility
mecham is accused of trying to thwart an investigation of the death threat allegedly made by one of his staffers against a top aide who was scheduled to testify before a grand jury investigating the governor's campaign finances
an avianca jetliner smashed into a mountain minutes after takeoff, triggered a landslide and burst into flames, killing all 137 people aboard, officials and witnesses said
among the 131 passengers were a roman catholic auxiliary bishop and more than 30 soccer players, officials said. there were no americans aboard, they said
the boeing 727 clipped trees before hitting the snow-covered mountain 50 miles away near zulia, witnesses said. news digest: tegucigalpa, honduras _ honduras; managua, nicaragua _ nicaragua; undated _ honduras protests rdp; washington _ north-retire; panama city, panama _ panama; washington _ aliens-wages; undated _ political rdp; washington _ privatization; phoenix, ariz. _ mecham; allenby bridge, occupied west bank _ israel-bridge; santa fe, n.m. _ milagro premiere; washington _ spring.</note>
a bipartisan group of senators proposed a $48 million package of new aid to nicaragua's contra rebels friday, including renewed authority for the cia to deliver previously stockpiled weapons
as u.s. troops continued to arrive in honduras in a show of force, assistant secretary of state elliott abrams said additional assistance was being discussed with honduran president jose azcona, in response to a reported nicaraguan incursion
white house chief of staff howard baker said president reagan would give ``most careful'' consideration to any request from honduras for troops to help repel nicaraguan forces, although he reiterated that u.s. troops were not expected to be involved in any military operation in the region
the federal government on friday tried to bolster its amnesty program by giving illegal aliens who file in the final month of the plan 60 more days to provide documents to support their applications
under the change in the program _ which has attracted a lower-than-anticipated number of applications _ amnesty seekers will be able to file a skeletal application from april 4 to the may 4 deadline without producing back-up documentation and medical data until sometime after july 5
the reagan administration has said it opposes extending the filing deadline, despite sentiment in congress to do so
a study using ultrasonic heart scans called echocardiograms has found that people with an enlarged left side of the heart are two to three times as likely as others to have a heart attack or stroke, researchers said friday
the defect, called left ventricular hypertrophy, has previously been associated with congestive heart failure. but this is the first time it has been identified as an independent risk factor for strokes and heart attacks, said dr. william castelli, who presented the findings at a meeting of the american heart association
the size of your left ventricle is going to be the price you pay for high blood pressure and overweight,'' castelli said. ``that should be recognized now as a powerful risk factor. it's as powerful as cholesterol, blood pressure and smoking, and indeed in the short term it's even slightly more powerful than some of those traditional risk factors.''
millions of asians prayed, pounded drums, and danced in the streets friday to greet total eclipse of the sun that drew a four-minute curtain of darkness across land and sea
young filipinos shot rifles and tossed firecrackers at the blackened sky. in northern india, thousands of naked men and women jostled their way into huge, sacred pools to cleanse their souls in a massive hindu ritual
the eclipse was the most spectacular along a 108-mile swath that moved from the indian ocean across indonesia and the southern philippine island of mindanao during the morning hours. but a partial eclipse could be seen as far west as india and eastward into parts of australia, new guinea and the pacific islands
israeli troops fired on palestinians in the west bank and gaza strip on friday following noon moslem prayers, killing two arabs, the army said. at least 25 protesters were wounded in the clashes
two israeli civilians were detained for allegedly stockpiling an arsenal of weapons intended for anti-arab attacks, police said
israeli military authorities detained a prominent attorney from gaza and four arab journalists, prompting an outcry from israeli liberals. authorities also ordered foreign journalists out of the gaza strip and many areas of the west bank
one of the fiercest recent spells in the iran-iraq war was reported friday: 37 missiles fired into cities, four ships attacked, seven warplanes shot down and thousands of soldiers killed or wounded
iran said its forces had captured two towns in a 5-day-old drive into northeastern iraq, in which it claims 9,200 iraqis have been killed or wounded and 4,000 taken prisoner, and recaptured nowsud, an iranian border town. nowsud was overrun by iraqi soldiers soon after the war began in september 1980
dispatches from the official islamic republic news agency claimed five iraqi jets were destroyed in 24 hours, including three french-built f-1 mirage fighter-bombers out to raid iranian tankers friday in the northern persian gulf. iraq claimed two iranian jets downed
leftist guerrillas on friday burned buses, taxis and other vehicles that defied their nationwide ban on transport, and they threatened more sabotage to disrupt weekend elections
the farabundo marti national liberation front, an alliance of five guerrilla groups, claimed its fighters attacked three soldiers guarding a gas station outside this capital
the armed forces press office said it could not confirm or deny the report, made on the guerrilla radio station. the radio said three soldiers were killed or wounded, but it didn't give details
peter simsa is the very model of a modern east bloc businessman
he has his own company, a carpeted office where he serves guests brandy in snifters and a telephone in his car
now he has his own lobbying group, the first of its kind in the east bloc, the national association of hungarian entrepreneurs
the organization, of which simsa is president, is dedicated to promoting small businesses in hungary and representing their interests to the government
under the leadership of communist party chief janos kadar, hungary in the early 1960s adopted economic policies that encouraged some private ownership and enterprise
the so-called ``goulash communism'' gave hungary one of the highest standards of living in the soviet-led east bloc, although mounting foreign debt and big money-losing state enterprises recently have bleakened economic prospects
hungarians were allowed to take second or third jobs, such as providing services or operating small private shops
in the late 1970s, the government began to allow private partnerships and ``small cooperatives'' operating as small private companies
what distinguishes them from state cooperatives is that they spring from private initiative and are established with private capital
simsa's vertikum enterprise was the first such small cooperative to come into being in 1979. today, he said, hungary has 40,000 private businesses, which account for more than 15 percent of the gross national product
some 60,000 of the 10.6 million hungarians are engaged in private business as their main job, and 540,000 others work part time in the private sector
originally, a department specializing in private entrepreneurs was set up in the hungarian chamber of commerce, a governmental agency
but increasing private enterprise and a desire for greater independence led simsa to seek permission for a separate association
our two basic criteria were that ... it should be a nationwide union and ... that it should fulfil the aim of representing our interests,'' he said
the government agreed last year to recognize the association, with the proviso that it be supervised by the chamber of commerce
simsa stressed that the relationship with the chamber ``does not mean a subordination.''
on feb. 20, the association held its first general congress and in less than a week signed up 1,500 members, half its pre-congress goal of 3,000 members this year
it was really difficult to foresee how many people had any sense of community or entrepreneurial identity,'' simsa said
the association has attracted interest from other east bloc countries. izvestia, the soviet government newspaper, and radio prague in czechoslavkia asked for interviews. simsa also had talks with the u.s. chambers of commerce
the chief problem is the economic regulation,'' said simsa. ``regulators do not take into consideration the specific characteristics of our group. while officially they say that they would like to inspire people, to give incentives (but) in reality they are very rigid.''
an example, he said, is the rule that one person can make and sell bread, but a group of people cannot do the same thing
there are plans to change this,'' he added. in addition to fighting regulations, the association will strive to make private business accepted as partners with the government, he said
now, he complained, private enterprises often are at the bottom of the list when it comes to allocating scarce resources
private companies are permitted only 30 employees, and the average size is eight people, simsa said
for a small cooperative, the law mandates 15 to 100 cooperative members, who in turn can hire as many workers as they want. a typical work force is 100 to 200
simsa said when it allowed more business, the original aim of the government was to improve the availability of small service, such as small shoemakers and shopkeepers
however, in reality these private entrepreneurs don't go into this direction where the government wants them to but where there is money,'' he said. ``the best market for them is the state companies and cooperatives.''
so entrepreneurs perform specialized services for the big state factories or provide raw or intermediate materials
simsa's vertikum, for instance, maintains cooling systems and strengthens concrete cooling towers and grain elevators. he started the business with nine workers and $21. today there are 115 co-op members and employees, and the business has $543,000 in property
other entrepreneurs have opened marriage mediation bureaus or factories to make medical protheses
last year, hungary's biggest small cooperative had revenues of $32 million. in 1988, it might exceed $43 million
back in 1985, when stocks were still hot stuff and destined to become hotter, such things as brokerage fees, foreign cars, audio-visual equipment and recreation were among the fast-growing consumer expenditures
it was a year of big hopes, and the stock market was viewed as the way to fulfill those hopes. brokerage fees in that year rose 54 percent, for example, making that category the biggest year-to-year gainer
the economy was full of big notions, many of them generated by the big-spending group of ``baby boomers'' _ those born by the bundles in the 1950s and now in their 30s and sometimes called yuppies. they were a driving force
the spending continued in 1986, when the biggest year-to-year percentage gainer among consumer expenditures was the 97 percent for boats, followed at 50.7 percent by recreational vehicles
those were also years of very low savings rate and strong credit use. in fact, one might safely say that people were too busy spending to bother very much about savings
but something happened early in 1987, and in retrospect it might have given a hint of the crash to come in october. judging from expenditures, hopes weren't as high. mundane, practical items moved to the fore
at 11.5 percent, the big gainer was books and maps, followed by funeral and burial expenses, floor coverings, hand tools and automotive repairs
to edward yardeni, economics director at prudential-bache securities, the figures reveal more _ the ``aging'' of the baby boomers as they move as a demographic wave through the economy
based on their advancing years, he makes a startling forecast: ``we predict that over the next five years the personal savings rate will rise to 10 percent.''
a double-digit savings rate? it has never happened in the united states for any prolonged period of time, barring the world war ii years when there wasn't very much to buy, and lots of money to put away for the bright days to follow
yardeni has a point, though. those low savings and high spending rates of the mid-1980s reflected the economic activities of an age category that traditionally is inclined to big expenditures
now, he observes, the yuppies are turning into couch potatoes. they _ at least some of them _ have made their trips and spent their money and obtained their material possessions, and now they want to rest
instead of running around and looking for things to buy, they are relaxing. they don't go out to eat as often as before, but are home enjoying the products of their own ovens. in a material sense, they've ``got theirs.''
as a direct consequence, yardeni believes, the days of low savings rates is over, at least for a while. last year the savings rate of 3.8 percent was the lowest since 1947, compared with an 8 percent rate in the 1970s
the economic implications are fascinating, including among other things the probability that a lot of folks will start paying off their big bills and that plenty of money will be available for business investment
but if people become such economic dullards as a 10 percent savings rate would suggest, won't the economy almost cease growing?
not so, says economist yardeni
he points out that ``a rising savings rate doesn't imply a reduction in consumption, just a slower growth rate.'' as he sees it, the economy will continue to expand, and the implication is that the growth will be healthier
polly bergen says her two most recent roles, as rhoda in ``war and remembrance'' and as vivian in the abc movie ``addicted to his love,'' represent the extremes of her personality
she reprises her role as rhoda in abc's 30-hour miniseries ``war and remembrance,'' the sequel to ``the winds of war.'' it will be broadcast next season on abc
addicted to his love,'' a movie in which a group of women swindled by a romantic con artist seek revenge, will appear on abc next monday
i loved playing rhoda,'' bergen said. ``i loved her in all her weaknesses and shallowness. i understood her and cared about her
that's why i like vivian so much. she's so strong. she sets up the scam to take care of the jerk who ripped them off. the funny thing is that vivian and rhoda are the two extremes of me. people see me as having all the strength of vivian, but i'm really as frightened as rhoda. but i guess i'm closer to vivian.''
when bergen signed for the movie it was called ``sisterhood.'' at one time it was called ``sweet vengeance.'' she had a few choice, but unprintable, words about the new title
it was a good part but only a moderate script when i signed,'' she said. ``the day i arrived to begin work the script had been drastically improved. as we went along there was more rewriting and it got better and better. that's why i think we got such good people.''
the movie also stars barry bostwick as the con artist, erin gray, linda purl and dee wallace stone as his other victims and colleen camp as a woman who helps them in their plot. arthur allan seidelman directed from a screenplay by ronni simon and richard alfieri
it's not a comedy, but there's a lot of comedy in it,'' said bergen. ``my biggest scene is very moving, heartbreaking, but the rest of my appearances are fun. it becomes a game to get him
i'm the oldest and wealthiest of the women. i play a widow who's lonely and vulnerable, and she fell for this very slick man. when it's over it very nearly destroys my belief in myself as a woman. so i have an enormous anger and have to make a decision. i have to expose myself and my pride to get this done.''
in ``war and remembrance,'' she returned to her role as the wife of pug henry (robert mitchum), the naval officer who observes much of the war effort in the books by herman wouk. rhoda has an affair with the scientist played by peter graves
i had total sympathy for her,'' bergen said. ``she had built her life around her husband. all she ever wanted was a little appreciation and affection. when she no longer got it from him, she turned elsewhere. she was shallow, but she had always been there for her husband and family.''
after four years with the role, playing it, rehearsing it, learning lines, and preparing for it, she was very sad to finally take her leave of rhoda
the last day was very traumatic,'' she said. ``it was like walking away from a part of myself. i had grown very close to her.''
bergen said she is currently considering two theatrical movie scripts and two scripts for tv comedies
the trouble is 90 percent of the scripts for the new season have characters whose oldest age is 22,'' said. ``i'm not 22. i've run companies for more than 20 years. i'm a bright woman. i look at tv's highest-rated shows. they're not about kids. i know the demographics of the country. i don't understand why all the scripts are for kids. it's beyond my comprehension.''
bergen, who is married to business entrepreneur jeffrey endervelt, has three grown children and lives in new york. besides her film and tv work, she also runs companies that manufacture shoes, handbags and belts
elsewhere in television:
anthony the greek _ anthony quinn, who has starred in ``zorba the greek'' and ``the greek tycoon,'' makes a guest appearance as socrates onassis, father of aristotle onassis, in the abc miniseries ``onassis: the richest man in the world.'' quinn's son, lorenzo quinn, plays alexander onassis, aristotle onassis' son who was killed in a plane crash. raul julia stars as aristotle and jane seymour plays opera star maria callas. in ``the greek tycoon,'' quinn played the onassis-like character who married the widow of a u.s. president. ..
russkie business _ harry anderson becomes involved with a beautiful soviet diplomat on nbc's ``night court'' as he tries to help a russian friend, played by comedian yakov smirnoff. johnny carson also makes a cameo appearance as himself. ^eds: note contents, especially 3rd graf, which may offend readers</head>
an alleged racial attack on a black teen-ager in new york's hudson valley has made headlines for months. now, authorities in a rural new jersey town are working to solve a crime with some chilling similarities
hildegard smith doesn't remember the 30-odd years she spent raising her family in this rural county seat. friends say the 50-year-old mother of five knows that the people gathered at her bedside are her children, but only because they've told her so
she believes richard smith when he tells her he is her husband, but cannot conjure memories of their years together or the plans they made to retire soon to florida
yet when she shuts her eyes, those close to her say, mrs. smith sees as vividly as if it were just happening the faces of two white men who accosted her in her apartment building stairwell, chopped off her hair, smeared her with excrement, painted markings on her face and told her, ``we don't want niggers in this town.''
suffering from amnesia since the morning attack feb. 8, mrs. smith is in seclusion, being guarded by her family and supported by a growing coalition of clergy members, citizens and community leaders
meanwhile, the town's tiny detective squad is working overtime trying to find the assailants
the rev. william j. sadler, interim pastor of the first presbyterian church and a leader of the coalition, likened the community's response to the attack to the way a person reacts to the death of a loved one
they go through all the same phases,'' he said. ``first, they say `did this really happen?' ... then, they get angry.''
and underlying the anger here are feelings of impotence and anxiety
we don't know who they are,'' sadler said of the assailants
so, the question remains: was it an evil passing through this town or has something dark within been revealed?
people have been calling, asking, `are we racist?''' newton administrator camille furgiuele said
newton, nestled among hills 60 miles northwest of new york city, is home to 8,000 people, of whom an estimated 150 are black
we're really a lily white community,'' sadler said
but not a racist community, said sadler, mrs. furgiuele and others
there is prejudice no matter where you go,'' mrs. furgiuele said. ``i can't say that there is no prejudice here. but i don't think it exists in newton anymore than anywhere else.''
sylvester fletcher, a 54-year-old black scientist who urged the formation of the coalition, put it this way:
there are undercurrents of racism in every community. in that regard, newton is not an exceptionally good place. it's a decent place
people here either like you or they let you alone,'' he added
john gibson, 37-year-old co-owner of the county seat restaurant, doubted the attackers were locals
i don't think they could be from around here. i've noticed that people here only usually do harm to themselves ... drinking too much, that sort of thing,'' he said
newton is facing transition. a nearby interstate highway completed just over a decade ago has brought traffic to town and made urban new jersey seem closer
the attack on mrs. smith has made the cities seem closer still
people tell me they're locking their doors,'' mrs. furgiuele said
however, more apparent than any sense of fear, is the feeling of a community protecting its own
although dozens knew of the attack shortly after a neighbor found mrs. smith, the story was kept under wraps. mrs. smith, hospitalized for 12 days immediately after the attack, initially was unable to talk about the incident
by the time police had the full story, days had turned into weeks and community leaders were getting anxious, fletcher said
i am a positive person,'' he said. ``i wanted something positive to happen.''
we had to make a statement that this community would not accept this kind of violence,'' sadler added
richard smith finally agreed to let the new coalition publicize his wife's case. a feb. 26 news conference was called at which mrs. smith's identity was revealed and composite sketches of the assailants were handed out
the sketches appear on 10,000 wanted posters that were distributed last week. a reward of $13,000 was offered for information leading to arrests
the ensuing publicity has been rough on police chief larry romyns. he has one full-time detective and one part time. and shortly after the attack on mrs. smith, there was a murder. a man is accused of slaying his wife because she intended to divorce him
romyns said his detectives have received dozens of leads
others are leery of what the publicity might bring to the community
we do not want anyone to escalate this into a wappingers falls situation,'' sadler said, referring to the new york state hometown of a 16-year-old black girl who says she was sexually assaulted by six white men
when the teen-ager, tawana brawley, was found last november, excrement was smeared on her and ``kkk'' and ``nigger'' were written on her body. some of her hair had been chopped off
officials here say they do not know if the attack on mrs. smith was a ``copycat'' reaction to the brawley case. but they are quick to point out the differences between them
mrs. smith was not sexually assaulted; miss brawley was, she told police. also, people here say this is local affair that will be handled without the help of outsiders
if (the rev.) al sharpton showed up, we wouldn't want him here,'' sadler said, referring to the civil rights activist who has taken up miss brawley's case. sharpton and others have encouraged miss brawley not to cooperate with authorities, claiming that for various reasons they cannot be trusted to handle the case properly
the community is not without outside support. the state chapter of the national assocation for the advancement of colored people has intitiated an investigation of the incident. the state assembly has passed a resolution expressing a ``vehement cry of outrage.'' and the newark-north jersey committee of black churchmen says it will ask gov. thomas h. kean to ``intercede in whatever way he would deem necessary to bring this case to justice,'' according to the group's leader, dr. edward verner
one way the state can help, sadler said, is by allocating money from a fund for victims of violent crimes. the smiths have no health insurance and in addition to paying for mrs. smith's hospital stay, the family faces huge bills for psychiatric treatment she'll need
our hope is that through treatment and time her memory will come back,'' sadler said
although there are few signs of a looming recession, the probability of one remains a subject of intense discussion in certain areas of the country, such as new york
why is this so? asks albert sindlinger, who was testing public opinion as long ago as the great depression _ and as recently as this very day _ and who declares again that recession isn't an immediate threat
sindlinger, whose company conducts scores of telephone interviews each day, says he finds a contradiction between what he reads and hears in the media and what ordinary folks around the country are telling him and his staff
the people he and his staff talk to, he states, are confident about their own economic future. he says their household money supply, a measure of existing conditions, is healthy. and so are their expectations, he says
he points out that these opinions can't be taken lightly because the consumer factor _ the ability and willingness to buy _ is the vital ingredient of our total economy, bigger even that business and government
but, he continues, many of the economic reports he reads include phrases such as ``when the recession begins'' rather than ``if there is a recession.''
he was especially indignant about the profiferation of these references following the oct. 19 stock market crash which, he contends, bore no resemblance to 1929, which he vividly recalls. so, he sought the reason why
sindlinger now says the fault lies with the financial press, which he says is headquartered in new york city, close to the financial community
new york, he says, is a special situation that doesn't reflect the country's mood
ever since black monday, he says, ``we have been watching a strong, steady decline in consumer confidence in one _ and only one _ area: eastern new york state.''
he declares that the economy in much of the country has improved in the past year, and is continuing to do so. he couldn't have said that in late 1986, when his readings showed 31 states in recession. now, he says, there are but four in recession: oklahoma, louisiana, west virginia and mississippi
in short, by his estimates the nation's economy has been growing stronger, but the economy of eastern new york has not. he measures that area at barely above recession level
the weakness there is rooted around the new york city financial community,'' he states. ``large numbers have been laid off, and many others say they are extremely concerned about their lack of job security
these layoffs have spilled into the bmw automobile dealerships, fur salons and fern restaurants. mcdonald's also is feeling the pinch on manhattan island, since lower-paid clerks are being laid off, too.''
he concludes:
so, the financial press, stuck on the same island with the financial houses and their current and former employees can't help but get the idea that something's wrong with the economy
they see these people on the streets, and interview them for their stories. being observant people, they immediately sense that people in the big apple are in trouble.''
he asks: ``do these causal observations affect their interviewing and reporting?'' seldom without an answer or an explanation, the crusty sindlinger responds:
are they human? of course they're affected.''
while conditions could improve around the country, he says, they are a lot better than some new yorkers believe they are
in the chaos and intolerance that is lebanon, rmeileh is an oasis of liberty, a haven for people fleeing political and social persecution and assassination
this coastal town, 19 miles south of beirut, is what lebanon used to be before 13 years of civil war, sectarian hatreds and religious fanatacism turned it into a wilderness
leftists and other refugees from beirut and the south have fled to rmeileh following a campaign of assassinations by shiite moslem fundamentalists against communists, pro-iraqi baath socialists and other leftists
one of the things that makes rmeileh different from just about everywhere else in south lebanon is that alcohol is sold openly at the side of the road
alcohol is banned in most areas of the region, dominated by shiite moslem factions, and in beirut's southern slums, the shiite stronghold in the capital
islamic religious laws also ban mixed parties, mixed bathing and the consumption of pork
but in the summer, rmeileh's eight restaurants and three miles of mediterranean beaches and hillside picnic areas are packed with males and females having a good time. pork also is sold
hamza, 35, comes from the staunchly shiite town of nabatiyeh in the south
we can't buy drinks in nabatiyeh any more, so we come to rmeileh,'' he said. ``in summer women have to come here to swim because it's the one of the very few places they can do that.''
because he lives in a shiite area, where such activities are forbidden, hamza declined to disclose his full name
rmeileh was a mainly christian town, with about 5,000 maronite catholics, until 1985, when moslem forces overran the coastal plain. now only about 60 maronite families are left
but rmeileh now is protected by communist party militiamen, most of them christians, who are allied to neighboring druse and sunni moslem forces who help keep the shiites out
the syrian army also has a checkpoint just south of rmeileh on the awali river which also acts as a deterrent for shiite gunmen
abu rim, a leftist official in the town, said 500 refugee families _ moslems, christians and palestinians _ live in rmeileh with the local christians
our aim is to get rid of the sectarian atmosphere and implement co-existence,'' he said
elias tabet, director of the town's government school, said ethnic mix gives rmeileh a non-sectarian nature, where people from different areas and religions ``feel safe and free.''
samih germanos, 57, a christian who fled beirut's shiite-controlled southern slums, said: ``we're very happy and hope things will stay this way.''
acting mayor halim kleib, said the tourist influx last summer was even better than pre-war times
people in the south prefer rmeileh to other places because it's the closest resort to them that provides restaurants and private beaches as well as drinks,'' kleib added
ali hujeiri, 40, a father of nine, who works at a pepsi cola plant in a nearby town, said he sells alcohol on the street to earn extra money and that most of his customers are from the shiite south
i'm the only one to sell pork in this area,'' said abu elie, a 32-year-old shopowner.``i started bringing it from mount lebanon last week and in four days, i sold around 40 kilograms (88 pounds).''
justice minister nabih berri's amal movement and the iranian-backed hezbollah (party of god) have been blamed for many of the assasinations of leftists in south lebanon
but since many of those who have fled to rmeileh _ ``self-deportees,'' amal calls them _ are skilled or professional people, the amal recently asked them to return to their villages
wafiq rihan, a 33-year-old shiite school teacher, didn't sound as though he is ready to return. he said that after he fled nabatiyeh last year the communists and the leftist druse ``helped us find places to stay and in the beginning we relied on red cross supplies.''
i'm teaching at the school now,'' he added. ``i was originally a teacher. but most of the other deportees here are also working in their particular fields, medicine, the law, and so on
one doctor who fled nabatiyeh even has some of his old patients come here to see him for treatment.''
rihan said he wants to go back to his own village but only when it's safe
blunt criticisms of art censors have come to be expected from china's most famous movie director, wu tianming, even more than the evocative and provocative films produced by his studio
it takes no prompting to set him off
those people (censors) were used to making hypocritical propaganda,'' wu grumbled in a recent interview. ``people who have feudal and ultra-left ideas and bureaucrats ... get in the way of our work.''
even the censors, however, have been unable to stop the cascade of domestic and international honors awarded in the past four years to wu's movies and those of young directors who work under him at the xian film studio in china's ancient capital
since wu became its director in 1983, the debt-ridden studio in arid northwestern china has become a prolific producer of hauntingly beautiful, technically innovative movies that have raised china's standing in the international film community. many in one way or another also have been seen as affronts to socialism
for example, wu's own ``old well,'' about a poor village's efforts to dig a well, won top honors last year at the tokyo international film festival and a special prize at the hawaii international film festival and received critical acclaim in new york
but its release to prudish chinese audiences was delayed for months because of the movie's depiction of a love triangle, including several kissing scenes of unusual passion
the black cannon,'' directed by huang jianxing, one of wu's stable of young directors, aroused heated debate because it attacked mindless bureaucracy. it eventually was named best movie of 1985 by china's ministry of broadcast, film and television
another xian studio release, ``the horse thief,'' directed by tian zhuangzhuang, never was shown to general chinese audiences because of its depiction of poverty among tibetan horsemen
from his brick office compound with peeling paint and leaking pipes, the 48-year-old wu said he wants to expand the limits of what is acceptable in chinese filmmaking, largely restricted since 1949 to socialist morality tales
wu said the studio does not seek to create controversy, but it often results because he and his fellow directors are trying to depict the often harsh realities of life in china
this frightens conservative bureaucrats accustomed to propaganda movies, he said: ``they lived illusions. they cannot accept any movie that reflects the dark side of life.''
it's a side of life wu knows well. he was born in the mountains of shaanxi province, north of xian, where perpetual drought keeps many peasants in poverty. during the 1966-76 far-leftist cultural revolution, he was denounced as a rightist and paraded through xian's streets wearing a signboard proclaiming his political sins
afterward, he said, he went home and ``shut my door and studied'' for the rest of the tumultuous decade, during which china made almost no movies
wu is willing to take risks not only for his own movies but those of other directors at the xian studio _ one reason it has attracted talented young directors and cinematographers
on his movie, ``the black cannon,'' huang said: ``the moment we saw the film for the first time we knew it would be controversial
but we had a common idea,'' he said pointing to wu, ``that this film should reflect life. we felt some pressure when the film was not (immediately) approved. but mr. wu said at one meeting if problems occurred he would be held responsible.''
another attraction is wu's readiness to give young directors free rein
asked if he gives advice to the less experienced, 34-year-old huang, wu laughed and said, ``he does fine on his own. if i were to help him ... i might stifle him
there would be great prosperity in china's literature and arts if all artistic leaders followed my example: to let artists do what they like.''
wu is harsh in his criticism of standard chinese movie fare. ``sixty percent of chinese movies are seriously lacking,'' he said. but he is no kinder to foreign movies
he disliked steven spielberg's ``empire of the sun,'' partly filmed in shanghai, about the japanese invasion of china in world war ii. wu also said he does not seek to copy western movies
he says his studio's movies are the best being made in china now, and was confident his own ``old well'' will sweep the chinese critics' and government awards for best movie of 1987
several upcoming xian movies appear ripe to arouse debate: one is about army chief peng dehuai, purged in 1958 for daring to criticize mao tse-tung; another concerns three youths whose lives are failures despite their efforts to get ahead
maybe some people will think it's too gray,'' huang said of the latter movie, which he is directing, to be called ``floating out of the sea.''
his own output is relatively slim. in addition to co-directing two movies, he has directed just three: ``old well,'' ``life'' (1984) and ``river without a buoy'' (1983). all three have received prizes at home or abroad
the demands of running a studio that employs 1,450 and is perpetually in debt will keep him from starting his next movie before next year, he said
will it be controversial?
yes,'' wu said emphatically, using one of his few english words. ``definitely.''
the people's consultative assembly has closed shop for another five years after an 11-day session marked by unprecedented discord
a public outburst by an army general, a dispute over the vice presidency and previously unheard of votes on policy matters upset the script at what is usually a pre-arranged ceremonial occasion
the assembly is supposed to ``elect'' the president and vice president and approve state policy guidelines. it consists of the 500 members of parliament chosen through a general election last april and another 500 people appointed by president suharto
the constitution describes the assembly as the nation's supreme lawmaking body. in fact, suharto rules the world's fifth most populous country with the support of the armed forces and participatory democracy is limited
five factions in the assembly acclaimed suharto as president for a fifth five-year term. the factions include three political parties, the military and appointees from different regions
state secretary sudharmono was sworn in unopposed as vice president only after jailani naro of the moslem-based united development party withdrew at the last minute
i didn't withdraw. i was pulled out by my party,'' naro told a news conference
earlier in the session, naro's party caused the assembly to depart from tradition by voting for the first time ever to break a deadlock
political custom calls for ``musjawarah,'' or negotiating for as long as it takes to reach consensus. some authorities dislike voting as a practice they associate with western-style democracy
the moslem faction was outvoted 280-28 in committee on its request to add a clause to election rules stating that ``general elections should be held in a fair and honest manner.'' opponents maintained this was already embodied in the regulations
the moslem group lost by equally lopsided margins on proposals to reject javanese mysticism as part of religion and subsidize islamic boarding schools
the vice presidency is a largely ceremonial position. but with the 66-year-old suharto starting what is assumed will be his last term, his running mate would be well-placed to stake a claim as heir to the presidency
stepping out as vice president is umar wirahadikusumah, 64, a retired general and suharto's former comrade-in-arms. umar kept a low profile during his one term and was never regarded as having presidential ambitions
constitutional procedures for succession exist, but do not take into account the widespread mystical belief that the national leader must be blessed with a divine ``mandate'' before one has a right to rule
about 90 percent of indonesia's 170 million people are considered at least nominally moslem. but ``dukuns,'' or soothsayers, have a wide following and suharto rules with the help of javanese spiritual advisers, informed sources say
suharto and the late president sukarno are the only presidents indonesia has had since independence from the dutch after world war ii. economic chaos, an attempted coup and bloodshed in the last months of sukarno's rule were supposed to be signs that he had lost the divine mandate. sukarno died in 1970
sudharmono, who is 61, the is leader of golkar, the government political party. as minister in charge of the state secretariat since 1966, he has been boss of the country's 2.6 million civil servants
once known as ``suharto's doorman'' because he wielded power for years by controlling access to the president, sudharmono is a retired army general. his background is in military law not field command, however, and not all in the officer corps welcomed his nomination by golkar
military sources who insisted on anonymity said some generals supported instead the newly appointed armed forces commander, gen. try sutrisno, 52, a popular figure and a former suharto aide
one military figure, gen. ibrahim saleh, startled the assembly session when he took the microphone and said: ``we indonesian soldiers who believe in god and defend honesty and justice have heard rumors that the nomination of the vice president is not being fairly and correctly carried out.''
there are certain things that we feel are against our conscience,'' he added but then was escorted out by other generals of the military faction before he could finish his statement
former armed forces commander gen. l.b. murdani told reporters later that saleh did not reflect the views of the armed forces
the national park service has proposed landmark status for the farm of whittaker chambers, whose allegations about infiltration of the american government fueled the fires of the red scare and whose writings deeply influenced president reagan and other conservatives
forty years ago, in a strange and symbolic incident, chambers, then a time magazine editor, opened a hollowed-out pumpkin on pipe creek farm and retrieved microfilmed documents that connected alger hiss, a longtime state department official, to communist activities a decade earlier
chambers, who had renounced his communist past, accused hiss of having belonged to a secret cell of underground communists that passed documents to the soviets in the 1930s. chambers claimed they had been close associates at one time
hiss sued chambers for libel, but the tables turned as the ``pumpkin papers'' sealed hiss' fate before the house un-american activities committee. criminal indictments followed and after two trials, hiss was sent to prison on march 22, 1951. his libel suit was dismissed in 1951
although he served 44 months in prison after being convicted of perjuring himself before the committee by denying under oath that he ferried the documents to chambers in 1938, he has maintained his innocence
reached at his new york home last week, the 83-year-old hiss said he had no comment on the effort to honor chambers with a landmark
he added: ``i will have something to say about him in the latter part of may,'' when he publishes what he termed a semi-autobiographical book
after turning in his former associates, chambers, who had slept for years with a gun fearing retribution, retreated with his family to the farm's 390 rolling acres, where he tended to the land and wrote about his experiences until his death in 1961
one of the conservatives most influenced by chambers' 1952 autobiographical volume ``witness'' was a young californian. ronald reagan's own book ``where's the rest of me?'' includes references to chambers
he talks about the deep impact that whittaker chambers had on him. he said reading `witness' was one of the most profoundly moving experiences of his life,'' according to white house chief speechwriter tony dolan
dolan said reagan was so stirred by the story of a communist who came to see the evils of totalitarian regimes that he bestowed a posthumous medal of freedom on chambers in 1984
reagan and dolan discussed the president's interest in chambers; a subsequent exchange between dolan and secretary of the interior donald hodel led to the site nomination
hodel is a very devoted conservative, very devoted to the president,'' dolan said
the landmark designation for the chambers farm depends on approval from the national park system advisory board, which is scheduled to meet on april 26, and then from hodel. it would provide the property with a plaque and place it in a league with more than 1,800 other sites, from ships to presidential homes, with national historical value
historians point out that the hiss-chambers case polarized the political world, fueled the paranoia of the cold war, and rocketed then-congressman richard m. nixon to prominence as one of hiss' top interrogators
according to park service historian barry mackintosh, nixon made at least two unpublicized visits to the chambers farm ``and became convinced that chambers was telling the truth about his association with hiss.'' years later, nixon would return to westminster to speak with chambers about his desire to be president, but chambers wrote supporter and national review founder william f. buckley jr. that he found nixon inadequate for the job
asked why the reagan administration chose to honor his father with a landmark nomination, john chambers, a former journalist now serving as deputy staff director of the joint committee on printing in washington, said whittaker chambers ``left behind a literary legacy and a legacy of action, a legacy of conscience, and this is the place where some of this was formulated, and one of the places where it came be focused
it's an honor that we welcome,'' said chambers, who has lived at pipe creek farm off and on since the age of 2
maintaining it as a working farm is, he said, his way of paying tribute to his father's conversion to a simple life of manual labor, expressed in the volume ``cold friday.''
here i determined to root the lives of my children. ... i meant to root them in this way in their nation. for i hold that a nation is first of all the soil on which it lives, for which it is willing to die,'' whittaker chambers wrote
this was all there was to give _ the ground beneath their feet. i meant to give it to them not only against the forces of open revolution but also against that suffocating materialism, which, more than want or hunger, recruits the forces of revolution in the west.''
according to dolan, ``chambers felt there was a death struggle going on in the world between freedom and totalitarianism. and as a matter of fact, he felt (the west) would probably lose that struggle
what he didn't count on was ronald reagan. ... he could not the future
in light of the delaware ruling, henley said it has moved to dismiss a suit challenging santa fe's restructuring and other actions by santa fe's board
earlier this week, henley announced its own restructuring, which would include raising $2.5 billion in new bank financing to fund acquisitions. at the time, henley chairman michael dingman indicated the company was ``on the prowl'' for new takeover prospects
separately, olympia &amp; york announced it has again extended by six days, until next wednesday, the expiration date of its tender offer of $17.50 a share for up to 14 million santa fe shares, which would boost its stake to 19.6 percent. to date, 4.77 million shares have been tender, the company said
the southwest african nation of angola has known only war since independence from portugal in 1975. a marxist government is in place in luanda, the capital, backed by the soviet union and cuba. in the countryside is a u.s.-backed guerrilla force called unita. in between are people often suffering the bullets, mines and bombs of war. an associated press correspondent had a rare look at the war recently during a tour of an angolan war zone
land mines, people with legs blown off, orphans, abandoned farm fields, hunger, the thunder of artillery in the distance, the clatter of helicopter gunships overhead. all this is part of daily life for the people of bie, a highland province in central angola shattered by a dozen years of guerrilla war
for a group of foreign reporters visiting this former farming town and the provincial capital of kuito saw clear evidence of the heavy fighting between government forces and rebel guerrillas
the war has left its mark on everyone, everything
cuemba, set on a rise in undulating grassy countryside, is ringed by trenches and machine-gun emplacements visible from the air, the least hazardous way to reach the town
approaching cuemba from kuito in a casa cn-235 troop transport, a short-takeoff and landing aircraft, the visitors accompanied by government guides saw roads and railways empty of all traffic
the fading outlines of abandoned farmlands farther out from cuemba were also visible from the air, contrasting with orderly rows of lush growth, mainly corn, seen outside kuito, 87 miles to the west, where the fighting of recent months has not been so intense
it is much the same in other parts of angola where the national union for the total independence of angola (unita), supported by the united states and south africa, is fighting a soviet-cuban-backed marxist government in luanda, the capital
an estimated 40,000 cuban troops are in angola, along with more than 1,000 soviet military advisers. the united states sends arms to the rebels and south africa lends air and ground-troop support
unita claims to have full control of about a third of angola _ in the southeast and east, where about 2 million of angola's 8.1 million people live. in the area it calls ``liberated angola,'' unita has established a government and runs schools and hospitals. the guerrillas say they operate in another third of the country while the government maintains full control of the rest
flying is perhaps the only safe way to travel in many parts of the country. thousands of villagers have lost one or both legs to unita land mines, the government says. hundreds of others have been killed, leaving children orphaned and making physical disability a common condition
the international committee of the red cross, which operates several physical rehabilitation centers in the region, last year estimated 15,000 angolan army soldiers and 15,000 civilians have lost limbs in land mine explosions
on the airport road in kuito, the visitors saw three women who had lost legs moving along on crutches or with canes. in the city there were more
there were children too, in tattered, filthy clothes _ some too small, some too large, clearly the only clothing they owned
in cuemba, where unita has been fighting for control of the region since jan. 25, children and older villagers show signs of malnutrition
bullet holes snake across the walls of many houses. the tracks of the strategic benguela railroad, which links landlocked southern african countries to the atlantic ocean, are rusty and caked with thick, dried mud. it was obvious no trains have been through for a long time
hairdressers, cafes, clothing and photography stores, printing presses and transport companies lie abandoned. their windows are broken and paint from before angola gained independence from portugal in 1975 is peeling from the frames. the municipal swimming pools in cuemba and kuito are long out of use
government forces killed 180 unita guerrillas in a recent three-day battle around cuemba, the defense ministry says. the rebels had not shelled the airport's packed-earth runway or taken control of the town as they had claimed
government forces clearly were in control on this day
the first foreign reporters to visit the region since unita launched a major offensive to seize cuemba and munhango, 40 miles to the east, were met by the fit and well-equipped angolan army unit stationed in the town
the commander, maj. jose walter freitas gomes, displayed weapons, including anti-tank missiles, mines and mortars that he said were made in the united states and captured from the rebels
no markings, however, could be seen on the weapons to indicate where they were made
at the end of their 50-minute visit to the town, the reporters were seen off by a small crowd, most of them children, and there was a momentary disturbance
a drum sounded somewhere in the distance and the children suddenly streaked off in fear, mistakenly believing the noise was artillery fire. their lives are full of those sounds
leaving cuemba, the casa cn-235 lifted into the air long before reaching the end of the runway, climbing almost vertically in a spiral, to gain altitude fast and to get away from any unita snipers or artillery
for the same reason, landing had been a reverse of this maneuver, dropping 21,000 feet to cuemba's airport in four minutes. the angolans call this corkscrew drop ``the spiral of death.''
in october, the international red cross suspended operations in bie after its sole cargo plane in angola, a hercules c-130, crashed after takeoff from kuito airport following what appeared to be an engine fire
four people aboard the plane were killed, along with a woman and child on the ground. the red cross began operating in the area again in late february, flying in food and medicine
the red cross resumed the services after rebel leaders at unita's jamba bush headquarters in southern angola said they would permit relief operations
angola's minister of state for inspection and control, kundi payama, said in kuito that unita has supporters and guerrillas among the population of bie. he noted that jonas savimbi, unita's leader, was born in the province
there are people working their family plots in this area who put down their hoes at night, dig up their hidden guns and become unita raiders, planting mines and laying ambushes,'' payama said
these things happen if you can't feed the people and they can't get decent housing, or find a job or work most of the fields
we've got lots of food at the (atlantic) port of lobito, but getting it here is the problem,'' he said. lobito is the starting point of the benguela railroad but rebel attacks have made it impossible for trains to travel as far as cuemba
every time we try to bring a food convoy here by road, it gets attacked and burned,'' payama added. he said the people understood, however, that the government was trying to get food through
cuban soldiers were seen getting off a plane at kuito airport and others were in evidence in huambo, capital of the neighboring province of the same name
soviet-built mig-21 jetfighters, mi-25 helicopter gunships and mi-17 transport helicopters at the airports of both cities were indications of the government's concern about the guerrilla campaign in the area
instead, they expect it will be, at most, part of a growing armamentarium against aids. the fda said there are now more than 100 drugs being tested against aids or against the opportunistic diseases that attack bodies weakened by aids
broder at nci is conducting tests that team azt with other drugs, principally one called ddc, for dideoxycytidine. he is conducting tests in which the drugs are alternated
i believe we eventually be using a combination of several drugs,'' said dr. glen mathisen, chief of infectious diseases at olive view medical center in los angeles
mathisen and others note that drug combinations have been used successfully against major killers such as leukemia and tuberculosis. most cancer chemotherapy includes a combination skillfully administered in cycles
azt's full range of uses are still being explored because the drug now is limited only to patients at a late stage of aids or of aids-related complex, or arc
barry said studies are under way using azt to protect medical workers who have been exposed to the blood or other body fluids of aids patients during treatment. there have been more than 1,000 such reported incidents and its hoped that azt given within hours of the exposure will prevent development of aids
other studies are exploring the use of azt for infants born with the disease, or for people who test positive for the hiv virus, but who do not have the aids sympthoms
but no matter what else is learned about azt, the important thing is that the drug has bought time, said broder
it's not the magic bullet,'' he said. ``but it's keeping people alive. we can now worry about things like longterm toxicity of the drug. before azt, they didn't live long enough for that to be a concern.''
before i. king jordan jr. lost his hearing, he knew nothing about gallaudet university. like many district of columbia residents, he drove by it frequently without so much as a curious thought
now, jordan has taken over the 124-year-old liberal arts university for the hearing impaired. as its first deaf president, he has become an important symbol to the non-hearing, even those who have nothing to do with gallaudet
it's overwhelming,'' jordan said. ``i came here after i accepted the appointment; the students were crying, hugging me. the emotion is still very high. it's a wonderful feeling.''
when i go off campus, i ride in the gallaudet university station wagon and people blow their horns and wave at me. i can see people recognize me
during the last week, the campus has been empty while its 2,200 students, who pushed jordan into power, took spring break
on monday, they'll return, and jordan will hold a celebration assembly to reinforce what has become his motto: ``deaf people can do anything except hear.''
jordan rose to the presidency march 13 on a wave of student protest that followed the decision by gallaudet's trustees to appoint a hearing woman, elisabeth zinser, as president
the outcry led to zinser's resignation and the hiring of jordan, who had been among two deaf people also considered for the job
what you saw was something really unique,'' jordan said of the seven days of protest
it was not dissatisfaction with the university administration at all. what you saw was the deaf community, the entire national and international deaf community finally reach a point where they knew it was time to speak out about their frustrations at not being in the top leadership positions in the field
the conditions were just perfect. the leadership in the student body was tremendous
i can't tell you how proud i am of the students, how well organized they were. how they guaranteed that there would be no violence, no damage and they carried that out. there was never anyone hurt or any damage done.''
virtually all the students were in on the demonstrations. they marched, they rallied, they blocked entrances to the campus and they convinced older deaf people that the time was now to take charge
jordan originally threw his support behind zinser, saying he had hoped to persuade the students to compromise for the good of the university
overnight, literally overnight, it became clear to me that it was getting bigger and bigger by the minute and that i had misread it, that i had made a mistake,'' he said
i don't think anyone realized the support there was on the outside. i've never seen a movement that was universal support before
when the group marched from here to the capitol, people came out of their houses and applauded. people who were tied up in traffic, instead of blowing their horns impatiently and wanting the march to be over, blew their horns in support, got out of their cars and waved
people lining the way between here and the capitol were signing `i love you.' it was probably a once-in-a-lifetime movement.''
jordan's deafness has not impaired his speech, but he uses a sign language interpreter to understand hearing people. though he can read lips, he says a lengthy conversation is exhausting without the help of signing
he lost his hearing in 1965 when he was 21 and stationed in washington with the navy. a motorcycle accident caused multiple skull fractures, severed his auditory nerve and put him in the hospital for a year
when he recovered, someone suggested he enroll at gallaudet. until then, he knew nothing about the school
before i became deaf, i drove by here regularly, a few times a week, and i had no idea what it was,'' he said
though his family was very supportive, deafness had never been a part of their lives. growing up in glen riddle, pa., jordan never even knew a deaf person
his father was a shipping clerk, his mother an office clerk, and his life with two older sisters and one younger brother had been typical small town america
when i first came to gallaudet i was going through a period of adjustment to deafness. one of the things that was easy for me to do was to lose myself in my studies. i found that i was very good at it. while i couldn't hear, i could read and i'd write, and became a very strong student. i made a conscious decision to become as good a student as i could.''
after getting his bachelor's degree in psychology, jordan went on to receive a masters' degree and phd from the university of tennessee. there were no interpreters to translate lectures, so jordan read the professors' lips and got help from his hearing classmates
along the way he married ``a hearing, but very supportive woman'' and now has a 17-year-old son and 15-year-old daughter
he returned to gallaudet in 1973 as a professor of psychology and became dean of the college of arts and sciences in 1986
as it's president, he said he will encourage deaf people to seek teaching positions at gallaudet, but he will not put any quotas on the number of deaf people who should hold either staff or administrative positions
about 30 percent of the professors are deaf. fewer administrators are
academica is becoming a better career program for deaf people, jordan said. in the past the only opportunity for deaf people would have been gallaudet
he said he knows of deaf people in other schools using interpreters to teach hearing students
i really believe that the events of last week show that even when someone needs an interpeter, still there can be clear, meaningful communication,'' he said
the u.s. merchandise trade deficit widened to $12.44 billion in january, but economists say the 1.9 percent increase reported by the government was too small to cause alarm
exports fell by 10 percent to $22.33 billion and imports by 6 percent to $34.77 billion, the commerce department said thursday
analysts said the export drop was expected and happens every january. but the decline in imports was greeted as good news and a further indication that the trade balance is slowly improving
u.s. factories, mines and utilities operated at 82.4 percent of capacity in february, the third consecutive month the operating rate has been at that level, the federal reserve reports
even though the february rate was the same as december and january, those two months were revised up slightly in the newest report published thursday, a change that private economists said was encouraging
before the revision, the operating rate in december and january was reported as 82.2 percent
the federal government moved to calm depositors' fears and protect the nation's banking system by advancing $1 billion to banks owned by an ailing texas bank holding company
the federal deposit insurance corp. said thursday it was lending the money for six months to subsidiaries of first republicbank corp. as an interim step toward restoring the dallas-based company's health
the $1 billion lifeline thrown to first republicbank worked quickly to calm fears of depositors, who in recent days of drained funds from the institution, analysts and bank officials said
firestone tire &amp; rubber co. has agreed to be acquired by japan's bridgestone corp. in an $80 a share all-cash buyout totaling nearly $2.6 billion
firestone also said late thursday that its board recommended shareholders reject the rival, unsolicited $58 a share buyout offer from italian tiremaker pirelli spa that had spurred the bridgestone proposal
in connection with the merger agreement, firestone stated it had granted bridgestone the option effective through the end of this year to buy an 18 percent stake in the company
american standard inc. has accepted a nearly $2.5 billion cash tender offer from an investment banking firm specializing in employee-led leveraged buyouts, spurning black &amp; decker corp.'s hostile advances
industry analysts said thursday that the $78-a-share tender offer from kelso &amp; co. represented a market premium and that the bidding war was unlikely to continue
the offer topped a cash bid of $73 a share, or $2.1 billion, from black &amp; decker, a tool and appliance maker that had tried to gain control of american standard for nearly two months
individuals and businesses voluntarily paid only 83.2 percent of the federal income taxes they owed last year, leaving the government with a tax gap of $84.9 billion, the internal revenue service said
more than half the shortage reported thursday was attributed to individuals who file tax returns but fail to report income from moonlighting, a small business or other legal non-wage sources
irs commissioner lawrence b. gibbs said closing the gap may require a basic change of attitude among taxpayers
r.h. macy &amp; co. inc.'s bid for federated department stores inc. suffered a setback when the securities and exchange commission said it considered a sweetened rival offer by campeau corp. to be an amendment to a previous offer rather than an entirely new bid
a federal judge had sought the sec's opinion on macy's contention that the campeau move constituted a new offer. the sec offered its opinion on thursday
if u.s. district judge leonard sand agrees with the sec, the campeau bid could expire as scheduled before the april 4 expiration of macy's competing offer. the earlier deadline could pressure federated shareholders into tendering their shares to campeau
japan overtook the united states last year in economic output per person, according to a report that highlighted that nation's relentless rise as an economic superpower
the report released thursday by japan's economic planning agency was the latest in a string of reports on that nation's growing wealth
the agency said per-capita gross national product for japan reached the equivalent of $19,642 in 1987, compared with $18,403 in the united states
the canadian dollar, buoyed by higher interest rates north of the border, rose to 80 u.s. cents for the first time in four years
analysts said thursday the possibility that central american instability might drive prices higher for oil and other commodities was one reason for the canadian currency's overnight rise from 79.9 u.s. cents to 80.08 cents
the currency closed at 80.04 u.s. cents in new york foreign-exchange trading
the nation's farm sector is continuing a strong recovery that began in 1987 with record-high net cash income, the agriculture department says
cash income still is expected to decline from last year's $57 billion to between $50 billion and $55 billion in 1988, the department's economic research service said in a new outlook report published thursday
the projected decline will result from lower livestock receipts, rising expenses and lower government payments, the report said. those will more than offset a rise in 1988 crop receipts
sen. howard metzenbaum, d-ohio, has warned cable television operators that congress will consider reregulating the industry if rates continue to rise and programming is withheld from competitors
some of us feel we were had'' by the congressional decision that freed most cable operators of municipal rate control in january 1987 and let them set their own prices, metzenbaum said thursday
metzenbaum said congress is concerned that operators of cable tv, an $11 billion-a-year industry serving 51 percent of u.s. households, enjoy a monopoly that can freeze out competing tv distribution systems and raise prices
stocks surged higher thursday in a rally driven by a better-than-expected trade deficit report and takeover speculation. the dow jones industrial average rose 21.72 points to 2,086.04, its second post-crash peak this month
the dollar rose against most major currencies except the canadian dollar. gold prices fell
bond prices rose on the u.s. trade deficit for january
grain and soybean futures prices posted strong gains, while oil futures prices rose sharply
a better-than-expected january trade deficit helped drive the dow jones average of 30 industrials to a post-crash high, while a report showing sustained factory usage underscored signs of economic strength
the dow jones average of 30 industrials jumped 21.72 points in a late buying spree thursday to close at 2,086.04, the market barometer's best showing since october's stock market crash. analysts credited the better-than-expected trade deficit and takeover-related buying for the strong performance
separately, the federal reserve reported the nation's factories, mines and utilities operated at 82.4 percent of capacity in february, sustaining that rate for the third consecutive month
the commerce department reported a slight widening of the u.s. merchandise trade deficit to $12.44 billion, but economists said the 1.9 percent increase was too small to cause alarm
exports fell in a seasonally-expected trend, this time by 10 percent to $22.33 billion
but economists were more enthusiastic over a 6 percent dip in imports, to $34.77 billion, which they say is a firmer indication the trade balance slowly is improving
january's deficit was up from $12.20 billion in december, but down from the gaps of $13.21 billion in november and $17.63 billion in october
if the january level continued for 12 consecutive months, it would yield an annual trade deficit of about $149 billion. in 1987, the merchandise trade deficit was $171.22 billion
the january report represented a slight setback after two consecutive monthly improvements, but there were some bright spots
the deficit with japan _ still the largest single-country imbalance _ fell by 17.6 percent in january to $3.95 billion, its lowest level since december 1986
the united states showed its first surplus in nearly three years with britain, with exports topping imports by $75 million. for all western europe, the deficit declined 51 percent, to $1.33 billion
the trade news helped support the dollar and pushed interest rates lower in the credit markets, where the yield on the treasury's bellwether 30-year issue fell to 8.53 percent from wednesday's 8.60 percent
the federal reserve's report showing sustained high factory use helped underscore economists' contentions that the industrial sector remained strong
before the year began, some experts had expressed fears that the economy could weaken significantly due to widespread cutbacks in production as businesses tried to work off a huge supply of unsold goods built up in late 1987
while high inventories have led to cuts in auto production, many other industries, such as textiles, chemicals, and paper, have continued to have high operating rates
u.s. and european trade officials are holding a new round of talks in the lengthy dispute over government subsidies to the airbus aircraft manufacturing consortium
but both sides remain far apart on the long-simmering issue of subsidies to airbus, which the united states contends are unfair, and u.s. trade envoys are not optimistic about the outcome of the meeting
the expectations are very low,'' an official close to the negotiations said thursday
the u.s. delegation, led by trade representative clayton yeutter, is expected to use today's meeting to increase pressure on the economic ministers representing the four airbus countries to abolish or at least scale down the payments, sources said
u.s. officials have grown impatient over the slow progress of the talks and are looking for indications that the airbus nations at least are willing to agree to reduce some of their support, sources said
the americans at a minimum want the europeans to give a signal that they are willing to accept some effective discipline in regard to subsidies,'' an informed diplomatic source, who asked not to be identified, said earlier this week
the united states estimates the four countries involved in the airbus industrie consortium _ france, britain, west germany and spain _ have given $10 billion to the consortium since it was created 17 years ago
willy de clercq, the european economic community's external relations commissioner, said last week there was a ``realistic chance'' of settling the dispute. but he also said the eec governments ``cannot entirely renounce'' state aid payments to airbus
de clercq predicted an agreement would require ``further rounds of very difficult negotiations.''
the united states maintains that subsidies to airbus are unfair to u.s. aircraft makers in the wide-body, long-haul passenger jet market
the airbus nations contend the subsidies do not distort trade and are allowed under civil aircraft provisions of the general agreement on tariffs and trade
the eec also argues that u.s. aircraft manufacturers long have enjoyed huge, indirect subsidies through military contracts from the pentagon and millions in government research grants
according to eec figures, the united states exports $5 billion worth of aircraft and aircraft parts to western europe per year, compared to $3 billion of european aircraft exports annually to the united states
the eec says outstanding european orders and options for u.s. aircraft total $23 billion, while u.s. orders and options for airbus stand at $13 billion
the united states contends airbus has 35 percent of the world market, a figure the eec rejects as far too high
the eec claims u.s. manufacturers still dominate the worldwide civilian aircraft market, with boeing controlling 49 percent of the market and mcdonnell douglas corp. 17 percent, while airbus has a 25 percent share
the united states has threatened to retaliate against airbus if the negotiations fail, despite a recent decision by the four airbus ministers to have airbus managers enter into direct negotiations with mcdonnell douglas on a possible joint project
the aim of the talks is to see whether the two sides could collaborate on one or more new airplanes
under the proposal, the new aircraft would not compete with existing models
but diplomatic sources told the associated press that the move was unlikely to reduce tensions over the subsidy issue
it may well be helpful for airbus and mcdonnell douglas to agree on a joint project, but that will not solve the core problem of the current subsidies,'' said another diplomatic source, who also declined to be identified further
campeau corp. has gotten a boost in one aspect of its court fight to gain the upper hand in its attempted take over of federated department stores inc. but still faces major obstacles
the securities and exchange commission on thursday agreed with campeau's contention that its sweetened buyout offer for federated constituted an amendment to a previous proposal rather than an entirely new bid
the sec opinion was sought by a federal judge hearing a lawsuit brought over the issue by rival bidder r.h. macy &amp; co. inc
if u.s. district judge leonard sand agrees with the sec, campeau could let its tender offer expire as scheduled before the april 4 expiration of macy's competing offer, which is supported by federated's management
that could pressure federated shareholders into tendering their shares to campeau, because of the earlier deadline. macy is suing to force campeau to keep its offer open longer
but although campeau got a boost in the dispute over its tender offer, it still must win a victory in its challenge to federated's ``poison pill'' takeover defense
both campeau and macy have bid more than $6 billion for federated, one of the nation's biggest department store operators
in a ``friend of the court'' brief, the sec told sand the revised bid campeau announced on march 2 was not a new offer, and as such did not have to remain open for 20 business days past its publication
earlier this week, sand ordered both companies' offers to remain open for three business days after he rules on campeau's lawsuit seeking to invalidate federated's poison pill
campeau has told sand its offer could not proceed while the poison pill remained in effect. the pill would allow current federated shareholders to buy more of the company's stock at a steep discount unless the board of directors withdrew the provision, making a hostile takeover prohibitively expensive
it was not known when sand would make his ruling
macy had no comment on the sec's opinion, said maureen milano, a spokeswoman for the retailer
macy is offering $77.35 a share in cash for 70.43 million federated shares, for a total of $5.4 billion. macy would exchange shares in the merged company, macy's-federated inc., and issue convertible debt securities for the remainder of federated's 89.5 million outstanding shares, which analysts have estimated would produce a total value of $6.3 billion
campeau's bid is a two-step, all-cash package that would be worth $68 a share, or $6.18 billion. it is offering $75 each for 70.5 million federated shares, and would acquire the remaining stock for $44 cash per share in a subsequent merger
federated stock fell 62{ cents to $62.50 a share thursday on the new york stock exchange
in a related matter, the head of the federal trade commission refused thursday to appear before a house panel reviewing the proposed federated takeover
rep. thomas luken, d-ohio, said ftc chairman daniel oliver and ftc commissioner terry calvani told the house energy and commerce transportation subcommittee they would neither testify nor turn over documents on the agency's review of any possible anticompetitive effects of a merger between federated and campeau
luken said he was considering subpoenaing the officials if they did not testify voluntarily
robert paul, general counsel for the ftc, said the commissioners decided not to give the documents to the subcommittee because several weeks ago the panel released to the press an ftc staff memo on the campeau bid the agency considered confidential
federated owns 650 stores including the bloomingdale's, burdine's, filene's, foley's, lazarus and rich's department store chains; ralphs supermarkets; gold circle discount stores; and main street and children's place specialty stores
macy owns nearly 100 department and specialty stores, while campeau owns allied stores corp
the head of the federal trade commission has been asked to justify his refusal to give congress documents on the agency's review of campeau corp.'s proposed takeover of federated department stores inc
the request was made thursday by rep. thomas luken, d-ohio, after ftc chairman daniel oliver and ftc commissioner terry calvani refused to appear before the house energy and commerce transportation subcommittee
i'm a little outraged at this conduct,'' luken said following the hearing. ``they're setting up roadblocks.''
luken, chairman of the subcommittee, said if the officials continue to refuse to comply, ``i will obviously be thinking about proceeding with subpoenas'' and possibly contempt citations
campeau and r.h. macy &amp; co. inc. are locked in a takeover battle for cincinnati-based federated. the congressman has accused the ftc of failing to thoroughly investigate the hostile takeover bid by campeau, which preceded the friendly takeover agreement between federated by macy's
robert paul, the ftc general counsel, said the commissioners decided not to give the documents to the subcommittee because several weeks ago the panel released to the press an ftc staff memo on the campeau bid the agency considered confidential
there's tremendous concern on their part that this was very, very bad precedent,'' said paul. ``chairman oliver and commissioner calvani are not going to be party to producing documents further...until there is assurance by the subcommittee that this type of thing will not happen again.''
paul said that if there was an ftc investigation of the macy's bid and the commissioners rendered a decision, they might be subject to allegations by private parties that the agency acted because of congressional pressure
the more the congress acts on this, puts pressure on us, the greater the possibility of arguing that we have been influenced by congress, that we've been tainted,'' said paul
luken said 80 percent to 90 percent of the information marked confidential in the ftc memo released by the subcommittee was contained in public filings and that the rest is just ``chit-chat.'' he said federated and campeau were told the memo was being given to the subcommittee and neither objected
luken asked that oliver and calvani submit a legal memo giving their reason for not providing the documents and for not appearing before the panel
ftc commissioners mary azcuenaga and andrew strenio, who appeared before the subcommittee thursday, said they had voted to turn over the requested documents but had failed to obtain the necessary majority vote to do so
federated operates about 650 stores in 36 states and had sales exceeding $11 billion in 1987
campeau is a retailing and real estate development company based in toronto
a $1 billion federal cash infusion to first republicbank corp. has helped stanch a run on deposits, but federal officials say the advance is only an interim step to steady the troubled bank holding company
the federal deposit insurance corp.'s cash advance on thursday helped calm jittery depositors and slow runoff of deposits that has drained an undisclosed amount of reserves from the ailing company, bank spokesman joseph c. bowles said
as soon as the fdic action was made available to the public, the deposit outflow stopped,'' bowles said
in washington, fdic chairman william seidman said his agency was talking to private investors about participating in a restructuring of the company, as a long-term solution to first republicbank's problems
in a move intended to stem any ripple effect on the banking system as a whole, seidman also pledged his agency to fully protect all depositors of the banks as well as general creditors
that goes beyond the minimum the agency normally would be expected to insure, which is deposits of $100,000 and less
the promise covers money borrowed overnight from other banks by first republicbank to meet the cash rules of the federal reserve board. however, it does not apply to the holding company and its bond and note holders
the action today confirms that all depositors and other general creditors of first republicbank's banks will be fully protected,'' said gerald fronterhouse, first republicbank's chairman and chief executive
bowles and other bank officials refused thursday to say how much of the company's deposits had been withdrwan since tuesday when it announced its decision to seek federal help
last month, the bank lost $600 million in deposits over a five-day period amid rumors that it was in danger because of billions of dollars in bad loans, particularly in real estate
but several customers at the company's lead bank in downtown dallas indicated they were not worried about losing their deposits
i have confidence in the people running the bank. it'll survive,'' said alex cochrane
gail scott said: ``it's pretty scary. i hope they can work it out.''
a woman who declined to identify herself said she wasn't worried because the fdic insures accounts up to $100,000, and ``before they go under i will have spent my money.''
an associated press reporter was escorted out of the bank under guard thursday as he tried to interview customers and bank officials
george reagan, investment manager of the texas teachers retirement system, a major institutional investor that holds 498,000 shares of first republicbank stock, said the fdic money would provide a cushion for the bank until the economy recovers
this will allow first republic to get through the hard times. no one, especially first republic, realized that we would go through such a hard time with the texas real estate market for so long,'' he said
h.r. ``bum'' bright, owner of the dallas cowboys and bright banc savings association, is the company's largest individual investor with more than 1 million shares
nine months ago, those shares were worth $24 million; now they're worth approximately $1.5 million. bright did not return repeated telephone calls on thursday
state treasurer ann richards said the federal action ``assures that all depositors, including the state treasury, are safe.''
first republicbank is one of four state treasury clearing banks, and as of wednesday held $152 million in state deposits. ms. richards said the deposits are fully collateralized and therefore protected
life has gotten sweeter for chocolate lovers, thanks to a drop in cocoa prices that has translated into bigger candy bars and could mean future price-cutting promotions
the price of raw cocoa _ which typically constitutes up to 20 percent of a typical chocolate bar _ has fallen to five-year lows
while that hasn't meant direct reductions in the cost of a snickers or hershey bar at the corner newsstand or vending machine, it has helped candy makers offer a bigger bar at the same price
the near-month cocoa future traded on the coffee, sugar and cocoa exchange in new york traded at $1,552 per ton on thursday, down from the mid-july price of $2,175. analysts say abundant supplies and rising production have depressed prices
but cheaper cocoa doesn't directly translate into cheaper bars because cocoa and chocolate don't have the direct price relationship of, for example, oil and gasoline or beans and coffee, industry analysts say
while cocoa and its by-products constitute up to 20 percent of a chocolate bar, about 50 percent of the candy is sugar and the rest milk, nuts, vanilla or other ingredients, said susan smith, a spokeswoman for the chocolate manufacturers association
hackettstown-based m&amp;m-mars, a privately-held company considered to be the nation's argest candy bar maker, has increased the size of two popular products by about 8 percent in recent years
last fall, m&amp;m-mars enlarged its milky way bar as it had done with its snickers bar _ the nation's biggest seller, according to industry estimates _ the previous year
hans fiuczynski, a spokesman for m&amp;m-mars, said the lower cocoa price ``augmented and abetted'' the decision to increase the bar size, although he said similar moves by other candy makers also played a major role
we did what other people did, not necessarily because of the price of raw materials,'' fiuczynski said
a spokesman for hershey chocolate u.s.a., in hershey, pa., said a drop in cocoa prices and stabilization in the cost of other ingredients contributed to its decision to boost the size of its various chocolate bars by 10 percent to 14 percent in july 1986
but the price of cocoa ``doesn't have that direct an effect on us'' in terms of the cost of its products, said spokesman carl anderson
kim badenhop, an analyst with merrill lynch capital markets inc., said recent cocoa prices could be considered the lowest in decades if inflation was taken into account
badenhop predicted the increased cash flow resulting from cheaper commodity costs could show up in still-bigger bars and more promotions such as coupons or discounted brands
retailers probably won't pass on their savings to consumers by cutting the price of an individual chocolate bar, but are likely to do it by offering a bigger product for the same price, discount coupons or through other promotions, badenhop said
we've been told through the grapevine that has happened with some of the companies,'' said ms. smith
consumers may see direct savings in products such as packages of candy bars sold in supermarkets or bags of small chocolates, said ms. smith
television producer burt sugarman has launched a two-pronged attack against media general inc., filing a countersuit against the company and launching a proxy fight to win three seats on the board of directors
sugarman filed suit thursday in u.s. district court against media general and each of its directors, asking a judge to order that his $61.50 per share buyout offer, worth about $1.6 billion be considered solely by the three directors elected by holders of the company's publicly-held stock
the suit also sought a ruling that shareholders, voting as a single class, could approve sugarman's offer by simple majority vote
separately, sugarman disclosed in a filing with the securities and exchange commission that he was undertaking a proxy battle to place himself and two others in the three seats on media general's board for holders of the class a publicly traded shares
the disclosures mark the latest skirmish in the weeks-long struggle between sugarman and the family of media general's chairman, d. tennant bryan, which controls a majority of the company's voting power
the family _ which has rejected sugarman's overtures repeatedly _ owns 71 percent of the company's class b common stock, which is not publicly traded. the 559,168 class b shares have the voting power to elect seven of the company's 10 directors
media general has 28 million publicly-traded class a shares, which have one vote each and elect three directors
sugarman, who controls 10 percent of the company's class a stock and none of the class b, has argued that the disproportionate voting rule doesn't apply if a holder of more than 10 percent of the company's stock proposes a merger. media general says its counsel disagrees
sugarman's suit said the bryans are thwarting a vote by stockholders, even though their class b shares constitute only 1.4 percent of the company's total equity
david l. jordan, a media general vice president, said the company's lawyers had reviewed the suit and ``think it is without merit.''
media general sued sugarman and his companies in federal court monday, asking the court to block the takeover attempt and force sugarman to sell his 10 percent holding
the suit alleges sugarman submitted incomplete and inaccurate information to federal regulators about his proposed takeover
sugarman's group includes barris industries inc. of beverly hills, calif., which produces game shows, and giant group ltd. of harleyville, s.c., which makes cement products
media general owns several communications interests, including richmond newspapers inc., which publishes the richmond news leader and the richmond times-dispatch
the dollar rose in europe early today on the back of better-than-expected u.s. trade performance in january. gold bullion fell
the u.s. currency was holding steady at mostly higher levels at midmorning, and traders said a rally triggered by thursday's trade report appeared to be running out of steam
the commerce department reported thursday that the u.s. merchandise trade deficit widened slightly to $12.4 billion in january from $12.2 billion in december. the market had expected a shortfall of $12.8 billion
a trader in frankfurt, west germany, said the dollar was boosted both by the trade figures and the deployment of u.s. troops to honduras. but he said market sentiment was not changed fundamentally
another jump in the british pound, however, could push the dollar lower, the trader said. ``the pound is seen as a real alternative for financial investments,'' he said
the pound fell to $1.8265 from $1.8385. sterling, which has surged this month, was knocked back thursday after major british banks cut interest rates
other dollar rates in europe at midmorning, compared with late thursday's rates, included: 1.6940 west german marks, up from 1.6775; 1.4020 swiss francs, up from 1.3940; 5.7490 french francs, up from 5.7175; 1.8985 dutch guilders, up from 1.8885; 1,253.25 italian lire, up from 1,244.37; 1.2490 canadian dollars, down from 1.2493
the dollar came under selling pressure in tokyo, but closed up on the day at 128.35 japanese yen, against 127.43 yen on thursday. in later london trading today, the dollar was holding steady at 128.35 yen
london's major bullion houses fixed a recommended gold price at midmorning of $442.80 a troy ounce, down from $443 late thursday
gold was bid at $442.60 in zurich, down from $445. earlier, the metal closed in hong kong at a bid of $446.39, down from $448.75
silver bullion traded in london at a bid of $6.29 a troy ounce, down from $6.34
the u.s. dollar rose in tokyo trading today and the stock market continued to rally as dealers reacted favorably to better-than-expected u.s. trade data
after opening the day at 128.65 yen, the dollar slid under midday selling pressure but finished at 128.35 yen, up 0.92 yen from thursday's close. the dollar ranged between a high of 128.72 yen and a low of 128.30 yen during the trading
the dollar came under selling pressure from exporters and insurance companies, bringing it down from the morning opening,'' a foreign exchange dealer said, speaking on condition of anonymity
on the tokyo stock exchange, the nikkei stock average of 225 selected issues finished the day's trading at 25,966.26 points, up 93.97 points, or 0.36 percent, from thursday's closing figure. volume in the first section was 1.2 billion shares
large-capital industrials, steels and electricals fared well during the day, but construction issues were weak, possibly due to friction with the united states, according to a dealer who asked that he not be further identified
the nikkei index has been gaining for the past four days, and today's closing figure was the highest recorded since stock prices plunged last october
the trade figures were better than we had expected, and we're seeing a strengthening of bullish sentiment'' said a broker with a major firm who also spoke on condition of anonymity
according to figures released by the u.s. department of commerce thursday, the u.s. trade deficit with japan for january was $3.95 billion, down from $4.79 billion in december. the total trade deficit for january was $12.44 billion, up from $12.20 billion the month before
here is a list of the 10 largest commercial bank collapses in the united states, ranked by asset size, according to the federal deposit insurance corp
1. continental illinois corp., chicago; assisted by fdic july 26, 1984; $33.6 billion assets; $4.5 billion fdic outlay; $1.7 billion expected cost to fdic
2. first republicbank corp., dallas; assisted march 17, 1988; $33.2 billion assets; $1 billion outlay; unknown expected cost
3. first city bancorporation, houston; assisted sept. 9, 1987; $12.2 billion assets; $970 million outlay; $800 million-$900 million expected cost. (the rescue package is contingent on approval by march 29, 1988 from the bank's debt holders
4. first pennsylvania bank, philadelphia; assisted april 28, 1980; $5.5 billion assets; $325 million outlay, since repaid; zero cost
5. franklin national bank, new york; failed oct. 8, 1974; $3.6 billion assets; $1.8 billion outlay, since repaid; zero cost
6. first national bank &amp; trust co. of oklahoma city; failed july 14, 1986; $1.4 billion assets; $635 million outlay; $347 million expected cost
7. first national bank of midland, texas; failed oct. 14, 1983; $1.4 billion assets; $1.2 billion outlay; $615 million cost
8. banctexas group inc., dallas; assisted july 17, 1987; $1.3 billion assets; $150 million outlay; $150 million expected cost
9. u.s. national bank, san diego; failed oct. 18, 1983; $1.3 billion assets; $222 million outlay; $67 million cost
10. alaska mutual bank and united bank alaska, anchorage; assisted jan. 28, 1988; $1.3 billion assets; $295 million outlay; unknown expected cost
wealthy entertainer merv griffin, who late last year entered the hotel business by paying $100 million for the beverly hilton in beverly hills, has offered $35 per share, or $225 million, for resorts international inc
but an attorney for new york real estate investor donald trump, who controls about 90 percent of resorts' voting power and is offering $22 per share to take the company private, spurned the thursday offer as ``illusory'' and a ``blatant attempt at market manipulation.''
trump is chairman of resorts international, which operates hotel-casinos in new jersey and the bahamas
griffin's offer, made by his privately owned griffin co. investment concern, is contingent on several conditions, including a provision that trump agree to vote his shres in favor of the merger and agree to terminate his five-year management agreement for resorts' atlantic city properties
trump has ``no intention of agreeing'' to those conditions, said his attorney, jack nusbaum
in light of the stance by trump, resorts' board decided at a thursday meeting that griffin's offer was ``moot.'' therefore, the board decided not to withdraw its recommendation in favor of trump's $22-per-share offer
in response, griffin spokesman mark gill said griffin is considering legal action against resorts' outside directors for breach of fiduciary duty to shareholders other than trump. three of resorts' six directors are trump nominees
despite insistence by trump that he would not raise his offer, resorts stock closed thursday at $25.25 per share, up $3.37{
griffin said it decided to make the offer after talks with f.v. scutti, a major holder of resorts' class a common stock who is dissatisfied with trump's offer. scutti owns about 5 percent of the htel-casino company
resorts has 5.7 million class a shares outstanding, each of which is entitled to one vote. it also has 752,000 class b shares, nearly all of which are owned by trump and each of which has 100 votes
in atlantic city, n.j., resorts, which maintains corporate offices in both atlantic city and north miami, fla., owns the 700-room resorts casino hotel and undeveloped real estate facing the boardwalk and is building the 42-floor, 1,250-room taj mahal
it also operates a casino and owns and operates hotel facilities with 1,370 rooms on paradise island in the bahamas
work on the luxurious and expensive taj mahal, which will be the largest hotel-casino in new jersey when it is completed, has been at the root of financial problems for resorts
trump bought control of resorts when its stock was depressed by those difficulties, and he was granted the five-year operating agreement of resorts' atlantic city properties in exchange for agreeing to help raise financing to complete the taj mahal
that financing hasn't yet been arranged, and trump has offered $22 per share to buy out other shareholders and take the company private. initially, trump had offered $15 per share, but a number of class a shareholders sued and trump raised his offer to settle those suits. a court hearing to approve those settlements is scheduled for friday in delaware, where resorts is based
nusbaum contended the offer by griffin was arranged by scutti in an effort to force trump to raise his bid again
besides the beverly hilton, the griffin co. owns several radio stations and the nation's largest supplier of closed-circuit tv systems, which are widely used at facilities such as racetracks. it also has extensive real estate holdings in beverly hills and northern california
merv griffin is a 10-time emmy award winner who served for 23 years as host of ``the merv griffin show,'' one of tv's longest-running programs
stock prices gained more ground today, extending the advance that has carried the market to its highest levels since black monday last fall
the dow jones average of 30 industrials rose 4.48 to 2,090.52 in the first half hour of trading
gainers outnumbered losers by about 7 to 4 in the overall tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 659 up, 370 down and 475 unchanged
volume on the big board came to 84.14 million shares as of 10 a.m. on wall street
activity was swollen by the quarterly ``triple witching hour'' involving a group of expiring options and futures on stock indexes
settlement of one key futures contract was done as of the opening today. reports from the nyse of preopening order imbalances were on the buy side
the rest of the settlement process was slated to be conducted at the close
beyond that, analysts said traders were encouraged by thursday's news of a smaller-than-expected trade deficit in january, with imports exceeding exports by $12.44 billion
gainers among the blue chips included ford motor, up [ at 44}; coca-cola, up [ at 40[, and exxon, up ] at 44]. but international business machines dropped | to 114\ and american express lost | to 26]
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks rose .27 to 152.95. at the american stock exchange, the market value index was up .35 at 299.34
on thursday the dow jones industrial average rose 21.72 points to 2,086.04, the highest level since the oct. 19 crash
advancing issues outnumbered declines by about 9 to 5 on the nyse, with 995 up, 554 down and 442 unchanged. big board volume totaled 211.92 million shares, against 153.59 million the previous session
pillsbury co.'s stock headed lower today after a two-day run-up, apparently dampened by a report of a larger-than-expected quarterly loss and word that the company was negotiating to sell its godfather's pizza chain
rumors that the food and restaurant giant is a takeover target pushed pillsbury's stock up more than $7 a share over the course of two days. on thursday, pillsbury closed at $45.37{ in heavy new york stock exchange trading
but that trend reversed today, when the stock fell 25 cents a share to $45.12{
pillsbury said thursday it lost $107.8 million during the third fiscal quarter, $50 million more than anticipated and a sharp downturn from the $48.5 million, or 56-cents-a-share profit posted in the year-ago period
sales during the quarter fell to $1.5 billion from $1.53 billion a year earlier
william spoor, pillsbury chairman and chief executive, acknowledged in a letter to shareholders, ``given our many recent disappointments, it is not surprising that we have raised investor skepticism and questions about our future.''
but he said he remained committed to keeping the company independent. ``now we must demonstrate, through action and not words, that we can perform at levels commensurate with our potential,'' he said
spoor said the quarterly loss, which stemmed from $140.9 million in restructuring charges to close businesses, restaurant properties and plants, would contribute to an earnings decline in fiscal 1988, which ends may 31
two-thirds of the charges occurred in the company's restaurant division
the 580-unit godfather's chain, which pillsbury acquired in 1985, was put on the block because it did not have near-term potential to be ``a major strategic component of pillsbury's portfolio,'' spoor stated
company spokesman johnny thompson said negotiations were under way with the management team of omaha, neb.-based godfather's, but he declined to comment on whether pillsbury had received any offers
pillsbury earlier announced plans to sell its bay street, key west grill and quik wok restaurant chains. spoor said the company had received a letter of intent from an unidentified party to buy bay street
however, spoor reiterated that burger king, the company's biggest restaurant operation, is not for sale
analysts had been expecting pillsbury to announce a restructuring _ including the sale of its steak &amp; ale, bennigan's and godfather's restaurant operations _ ever since chairman john stafford resigned last month and spoor took over as interim chairman
pillsbury's announcement in february of lower-than-expected earnings for the fiscal year ended in may preceded stafford's feb. 29 departure
analysts have speculated that potential buyers for pillsbury could include swiss-based nestle sa, beatrice co. of chicago and new york investor saul steinberg
stock prices pushed ahead today, extending the advance that has carried the market to its highest levels since black monday last fall
the dow jones average of 30 industrials rose 9.95 to 2,095.99 by 11 a.m. on wall street
gainers outnumbered losers by about 3 to 2 in the overall tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 745 up, 504 down and 501 unchanged
volume on the big board came to 117.46 million shares at midmorning
activity was swollen by the quarterly ``triple witching hour'' involving a group of expiring options and futures on stock indexes
settlement of one key futures contract was done as of the opening today. reports from the nyse of preopening order imbalances were on the buy side
the rest of the settlement process was slated to be conducted at the close
beyond that, analysts said traders were encouraged by thursday's news of a smaller-than-expected trade deficit in january, with imports exceeding exports by $12.44 billion
firestone tire &amp; rubber jumped 15| to 78[. the company agreed thursday to be acquired by bridgestone of japan for $80 a share, in a deal that topped a previous $58-a-share bid by pirelli group of italy
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks rose .47 to 153.15. at the american stock exchange, the market value index was up .43 at 299.42
the great u.s. airline giveaway seems to be grinding to a halt
worried about the potential financial impact of burgeoning frequent-flier programs and triple-mileage travel awards, many major air carriers have imposed restrictions on the plans or are thinking of doing so
the frequent-flier plans, which reward passengers with free tickets or upgrades to first class after they have flown a set number of miles, were launched in 1981 to stimulate ``brand loyalty'' to airlines in a fiercely competitive climate
the giveaway escalated to fever pitch at the beginning of this year, when delta air lines introduced a new program to automatically triple the mileage accumulated by frequent fliers. most big airlines quickly followed suit
but the u.s. airline industry is facing a staggering revenue loss if the estimated 8 million people enrolled in those programs start redeeming their bonuses and bumping paying passengers. the accumulated value of those bonuses is around $1.24 billion, reckons julius maldutis, senior airline analyst for the investment firm salomon brothers inc
that compares with total industry revenue of around $46.7 billion in 1985, $50.5 billion in 1986 and just over $60 billion last year
the frequent-flier programs have really gotten out of control,'' said dan sheehy, a spokesman for united airlines. ``we're concerned with the direction that the programs are taking.''
john zeeman, united's executive vice president for marketing and planning, said in a speech early this month that the airline is considering imposing restrictions on its frequent-flier programs. he said the options under review include requiring that travel awards be redeemed by a certain deadline, and even eliminating free trips and providing only first-class upgrades instead
if united decides to limit its program, the changes would be announced in early may, zeeman said
many other airlines have recently slapped restrictions on their programs _ most notably by limiting the number of free tickets for any one flight. but the limits being mulled by united, a subsidiary of allegis corp. and the nation's largest airline, are more far-reaching and could be matched by the other carriers
the last thing these airlines need is more damage on their balance sheets,'' said peter tanous, an editor of frequent, a monthly newsletter on frequent-flier programs published in colorado springs, colo. ``the airlines are scared stiff that they may be forced to take a hit against their earnings.''
observers warn that the internal revenue service could decide to tax the programs, sparking a ``mad rush'' by passengers to redeem their travel bonuses. the irs indicated recently that it considers travel awards a form of reportable income when transportation costs for a frequent business flier are paid by an employer
and the financial accounting standards board is expected to require airlines to provide for the liability of unredeemed awards in their 1988 financial statements
the looming crisis has taken hold during an already turbulent period for the nation's airline industry. the business is coming off one of its worst safety performances in 1987, struggling with unions and threatened strikes against some big carriers, and worrying about the possibility of a recession later in the year
for now, though, many airlines are enjoying robust passenger traffic and earnings _ prompting them to raise fares recently and to eliminate some discount fares
analysts say nearly all the major airlines except delta have started to limit their frequent-flier largesse by instituting ``capacity control,'' or reducing the number of freebies on a flight
everyone else is doing it; you have to control and manage your inventory,'' said bob gibbons, a spokesman for northwest airlines _ which will start capacity control on april 1 for bonuses issued after feb. 15
even holdout delta has ``blackout'' dates, or certain peak travel periods when free tickets cannot be used. delta, the third largest airline, also has the unique requirement that frequent fliers must charge their tickets on an american express card
we want to remain competitive with the industry,'' delta spokesman jim lundy said when asked what might happen if united instituted major restrictions
some airlines also are looking at other approaches, such as replacing free travel with merchandise awards or hotel and car rental premiums
while they could significantly restrict their frequent-flier programs, the airlines are not about to eliminate them or triple-mileage awards altogether, observers say. when the triple-mileage plans were launched at the start of the year, the carriers assured passengers that the popular gimmicks would be retained through 1988
we recognize that there certainly is an economic impact associated with the triple-mileage program,'' said frank dinuzzo, managing director of sales promotion for american airlines. but, he added, american has no intention of canceling its program
indeed, some observers suggest the airlines may be caught in a sort of ``catch-22'' by their frequent-flier programs, forced to keep them because there is no way to end them
i suspect that if the airlines had their druthers, they would throw frequent-flier programs into a bonfire because they've just become so expensive,'' said michael j. friedman, a vice president of sh&amp;e inc., an aviation consulting firm
however, he noted, it would be extremely difficult for a carrier to end its frequent-flier program without all its competitors doing the same
while the major u.s. airlines may be losing millions of dollars with their frequent-flier programs and triple-mileage travel awards, a new study contends that companies are wasting as much as $12 billion a year on business travel
the survey of 57 large and medium-sized companies by travelmation corp., a travel agency based in stamford, conn., found that u.s. businesses are squandering 10 percent to 15 percent of their annual travel budgets
travel agents' use of ``antiquated'' airline reservation systems that can't keep pace with fast-changing fares is the main cause of the waste, according to the study
airline analysts estimate that u.s. carriers currently make around 40,000 fare changes a day
millions of dollars could be saved by companies each year without reducing quality, by combining the use of advanced computer technology with a carefully worked out corporate travel plan,'' said travelmation president louis van leeuwen, who directed the survey
conventional travel agencies _ whose methods worked well before deregulation of the u.s. airline industry in 1978 _ are now unable to offer companies the best travel values, van leeuwen said
among the study's other findings:
_conventional travel agencies, even those equipped with computers, can't keep track of constant fare changes
_many travel agents can't guarantee they will find flights at the lowest fares available
_many agents don't automatically process the daily-changing rules governing which fares can be used on which flights
_corporate travel policies are largely ignored by travel agents
wheat futures moved a little higher early today on the chicago board of trade, but soybeans and most corn contracts were on the decline
a large speculator who triggered a sharp rally in soybeans on thursday was not in the market early today, said victor lespinasse, a trader with the investment firm dean witter reynolds inc
as a result, he said, a lot of traders who rode thursday's momentum with buy orders, were selling off ahead of the weekend
the wheat pit remained optimistic amid rumors that the agriculture department is about to make a move on a subsidized grain deal with a foreign country, possible china, india or the soviet union
on the opening, wheat was } cent to 1{ cents higher with the contract for delivery in may at $3.06 a bushel; corn was { cent lower to } cent higher with march at $1.98} a bushel; and soybeans were 1\ cents to 2 cents lower with march at $6.24 a bushel
livestock and meat futures were mixed on the chicago mercantile exchange
live cattle were .03 cent lower to .05 cent higher with the april contract at 73.62 cents a pound; feeder cattle were .20 cent lower to .15 cent higher with march at 81.90 cents a pound; hogs were .05 cent lower to .15 cent higher with april at 45.75 cents a pound; and frozen pork bellies were .20 cent lower to .30 cent higher with march at 54.40 cents a pound
on thursday, cattle futures were lower while pork advanced
the trans-panama pipeline that carries alaska oil across the isthmus en route to markets on the u.s. gulf coast resumed operations friday, the pipeline said
pumping had stopped because a strike by electrical workers cut off power wednesday and thursday, prompting the panamanian government to announce it was taking over all public utilities
service was restored at 6 a.m. (est) this morning,'' a spokesman for the pipeline operator said. ``we actually never stopped loading and unloading at both ends. we stopped the actual pumping from one end to the other because for that we depend on public energy. but we have our own plant at each end for loading and unloading.''
the pipeline carries 650,000 barrels a day of alaska oil, roughly 10 percent of u.s. domestic production. a barrel is equivalent to 42 gallons
bp america inc. owns two-thirds to three-quarters of the oil flowing through the pipeline. the rest is owned by exxon co. usa
the flow was first halted at 2 p.m. est wednesday when electrical workers joined a widespread strike against gen. manuel antonio noriega, said tim reynolds, a bp america spokesman in washington, d.c. the strike cut off power to a pump station at the foot of a mountain, he said
the company was taking steps to set up a ship-to-ship transfer operation in order to put at least some of its oil through the canal, but service was restored, making thaat action unnecessary
alaska officials were worried about a panama pipeline shutdown because it could slow sales of alaska crude, which account for the bulk of state revenues
west coast oil markets are glutted with alaska oil, and the federal export ban prevents its sale overseas
chuck logsdon, chief oil revenue analyst for the state, said the gulf coast markets have been handling more than 600,000 barrels of the total daily alaska production of 1.8 million to 1.9 million barrels
stock prices churned ahead today, extending the advance that has carried the market to its highest levels since black monday last fall
the dow jones average of 30 industrials rose 7.13 to 2,093.17 by noontime on wall street
gainers outnumbered losers by about 7 to 5 in the overall tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 770 up, 563 down and 485 unchanged
activity was swollen by the quarterly ``triple witching hour'' involving a group of expiring options and futures on stock indexes that are used in large-scale computer program trading
settlement of one key futures contract was done based on stock prices as of the opening today. reports from the nyse of preopening order imbalances were on the buy side
the rest of the settlement process was slated to be conducted at the close
beyond that, analysts said the market was still benefiting from thursday's news of a smaller-than-expected trade deficit in january, with imports exceeding exports by $12.44 billion
firestone tire &amp; rubber jumped 15| to 78[. the company agreed thursday to be acquired by bridgestone of japan for $80 a share, in a deal that topped a previous $58-a-share bid by pirelli group of italy
gainers among the blue chips included ford motor, up ] at 45; exxon, up ] at 44], and merck, up 1} at 160{. however, general electric dropped | to 44 and international business machines was down | at 114\
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks rose .36 to 153.04. at the american stock exchange, the market value index was up .63 at 299.62
volume on the big board came to 140.41 million shares at noontime, against 110.51 million at the same point thursday. comments from commission's chairman; picks ups 4th graf pvs, the commission,; also running on general news wires</note>
a bipartisan presidential commission today told president reagan the government should begin a gradual but wholesale transfer of mail delivery, air traffic control, prison operations and scores of other services to the private sector
controversial even before its submission, the report by the presidential commission on privatization goes far beyond earlier proposals by reagan to sell off federal assets and reduce the scope of government
the government with its checks and balances does not lend itself to managing high technology,'' said the commission's chairman, david linowes, a democrat. ``government entities have injected themselves well beyond the realm of government into business to the detriment of both business and government.''
linowes, a political economics professor at the university of illinois, said at press conference after meeting privately with reagan that the president ``hasn't had an opportunity to read the report yet'' and did not indicate what, if any, of the suggestions the white house would push
but he acknowledged that none of the recommendations is likely to be enacted before reagan leaves office next january
this is the first time there has been an independent exhaustive analysis of the issues,'' linowes said. ``we didn't take on this job with the expectation that it would stay with just one administration.''
the commission, named last september by the president to expand upon his own privatization themes, came up with 78 suggestions that it said would make government more efficient
among the recommendations:
_the postal service's monopoly on delivering letters should be ended over time, with private companies allowed to compete for the business
_a system of educational ``vouchers'' should be established to give parents greater freedom of choice in selecting elementary or secondary schools for their children. linowes suggested vouchers of about $3,000 a year and said they might be redeemable at private schools as well, although at a discount
_the government should expand its voucher system for low-cost public housing instead of building new projects, while selling existing public housing to residents where possible
_the management of military commissaries and federal, state and local prisons should be contracted out
_airport control towers should be privately run, although the government should ``continue to regulate the national airspace.''
the report also called for privatization of elements of medicare and sale of the government's $250 billion loan portfolio, and it echoed reagan's own calls to sell off naval petroleum reserves, urban mass transit systems and amtrak rail passenger service
he seems to be gung-ho on it,'' linowes said in an interview. ``there were bound to be some overlaps.''
many of these items, proposed in annual reagan budget recommendations, already have been rejected by a congress that to date has demonstrated little enthusiasm for ``privatization.''
but linowes said he believes the concept will be more warmly received on capitol hill as the work product of a bipartisan commission
the facts will argue for themselves,'' linowes said. he called the panel's work an ``exhaustive analysis.''
among the panel's 12 members are james mcintyre jr., who was budget director for president carter, and melvin r. laird, secretary of defense under president nixon
linowes, a professor of political economy, said that the panel is proposing a gradual turnover of government functions to private business. ``in no place do we suggest it happen overnight, that today you're a government agency and tomorrow, you're not.''
however, the recommendations generated sharp advance opposition from public employees' and postal workers' unions
the national association of letter carriers said ending the present postal service monopoly on first- and third-class mail delivery would destroy the nation's system of universal service. ``rural and inner-city residents would not be served ... or would receive reduced service at exorbitant postal rates,'' the union said
linowes, however, claimed the government could still demand postal delivery to all areas at the same price, even if performed by private companies
permeating all these recommendations is that the government must never abdicate its responsibility for establishing policy and standards,'' he said
on the proposal to contract out prison administration, linowes said the government might pay a fee for each prisoner processed
i can also see incentives given,'' he added, suggesting it might be a good way to whittle away at the nation's 80 percent repeat-offender rate
you could give a bonus if the released prisoner wasn't returned to jail for two years, a bigger bonus if he stayed out for five. less than two years, no bonus. there would be an incentive that doesn't exist now. i can visualize teams of behavioral scientists and sociologists being hired as well as guards.''
linowes said the report throws down a challenge for innovative thinking
for instance, there may be a question of whether amtrak can ever be made profitable under present circumstances. but why can't the air space over railroad stations be leased out for 20- or 30-story office towers?
why should ticket agents stand around all day waiting to sell railroad tickets? why can't they sell something else as well _ postcards or stamps? we could bring in creative people from the private sector. they could have circus cars running between new york and washington and charge $5 a head. or we could have historical trips.''
running a retailing company has become a defensive business these days
time was, all management had to worry about was getting people in the front door. now, they have to fend off corporate raiders at the back door
with takeover activity threatening their independence, some companies have taken steps to protect themselves. but others still cling to the myth that it can't happen here
two weeks ago, dart group corp. dropped its bid for stop &amp; shop cos. after stop &amp; shop agreed to a leveraged buyout by kohlberg kravis roberts inc. analysts expect dart, with a string of unsuccessful takeover attempts behind it, to try for another retailer
and if campeau corp. loses to r.h. macy &amp; co. inc. in their battle over federated department stores inc., the toronto-based developer will probably pursue another major department store operator such as may department stores co. or dayton hudson corp
which retailers are the most likely targets?
the most vulnerable are companies whose stock is widely held, rather than concentrated in the hands of a few insiders, said monroe h. greenstein, a retail industry analyst with the investment firm bear stearns &amp; co. inc
out of hundreds of publicly-liste       50  30      cdy austin                 60  37 1.94   clr baltimore              47  29      cdy billings               45  31       clr birmingham             62  45 .08  cdy bismarck               40  22      cdy boise                  55  32       clr boston                 53  34      sn brownsville            74  46 .11   clr buffalo                36  26      sn burlington,vt.         42  20      cdy casper                 27  11       clr charleston,s.c.        53  45       clr charleston,w.va.       44  32      cdy charlotte,n.c.         56  38      cdy cheyenne               25  13       clr chicago                41  28 .04  cdy cincinnati             45  32 .13  cdy cleveland              38  30      sn columbia,s.c.          61  31       clr columbus,ohio          41  32 .06  cdy concord,n.h.           49  23      cdy dallas-ft worth        55  33 .53   clr dayton                 43  24 .06  cdy denver                 30  16 .02   clr des moines             40  19      cdy detroit                43  31 .01  cdy duluth                 37  13      cdy el paso                60  28       clr evansville             42  32 .11  cdy fairbanks              09  05      cdy fargo                  40  18      cdy flagstaff              44  26       clr grand rapids           39  26 .07  sn great falls            47  31       clr greensboro,n.c.        53  28      cdy hartford               48  27      cdy helena                 45  23      cdy honolulu               82  68       clr houston                65  44 1.42   clr indianapolis           43  31 .10  cdy jackson,miss.          68  46 .45   clr jacksonville           67  40      cdy juneau                 42  40      rn kansas city            33  20 .08   clr las vegas              66  42       clr little rock            46  36 .36  cdy los angeles            77  53       clr louisville             46  33 .15  cdy lubbock                37  21       clr memphis                49  41 .06  cdy miami beach            68  66      rn midland-odessa         54  22       clr milwaukee              40  29      sn mpls-st paul           42  24      cdy nashville              52  36 .01  cdy new orleans            66  55 1.11   clr new york city          48  33      cdy norfolk,va.            51  29      rn north platte           35  16      cdy oklahoma city          43  26 .29   clr omaha                  43  19      cdy orlando                71  53      rn philadelphia           50  30      cdy phoenix                74  51       clr pittsburgh             36  27 .01  cdy portland,maine         52  23      cdy portland,ore.          66  37      rn providence             52  26      sn raleigh                54  27      cdy rapid city             32  18 .02  cdy reno                   65  26       clr richmond               51  27      cdy sacramento             75  47       clr st louis               41  32       clr salt lake city         45  26       clr san antonio            65  39 .52   clr san diego              69  52       clr san francisco          72  48       clr san juan,p.r.          86  75      cdy st ste marie           43  28 .16  sn seattle                63  41      rn shreveport             55  42 1.17   clr sioux falls            42  22      cdy spokane                54  29      cdy syracuse               40  26      sn tampa-st ptrsbg        71  52      rn topeka                 34  20 .04   clr tucson                 69  37       clr tulsa                  43  30 .40   clr washington,d.c.        49  32      cdy wichita                33  19 .21   clr wilkes-barre           42  25      cdy wilmington,del.        48  31      cdy   national temperature extremes  high thursday...84 at thermal, calif.   low friday morning _ 8 below zero at gunnison, colo.     
a squabble among british unions over single-union representation at factories led ford motor co. to cancel plans friday for an electronics plant in scotland
ford said the proposed $73 million plant could not compete if its workers were represented by more than one union
conservative party politicians reacted quickly, accusing the unions of causing job losses in an economically depressed area
the dundee fiasco is a tragic return to the socialist anarchy of the 1970s,'' said michael heseltine, a conservative lawmaker in parliament
malcolm rifkind, the government's scottish secretary, criticized the unions for holding ``neanderthal attitudes.''
ford said that it had reached agreement with the amalgamated engineering union to represent the initial work force of 450 employees, but that the 11 other unions also representing workers at ford's current british plants balked. plans called for the scottish factory to employ about 1,000 workers at peak production
britain's unions are deeply divided about whether to accept single-union deals and no-strike agreements, which have become more common in this country, particularly at japanese-owned plants
union leaders have also been struggling to find a way to regain the power they lost under the legislation enacted by prime minister margaret thatcher's conservative government
years of relative labor calm have been disrupted by recent strikes at ford and other auto plants, as well as walkouts by miners and nurses
ford said there was ``no prospect'' of reaching an agreement for a single union to represent the plant's hourly workers
after very careful consideration, we have decided not to proceed with development of a new electronics plant in scotland,'' frank macher, general manager of ford's electrical and electronics division in detroit, said in a statement
a single trade union agreement was necessary to make the plant ``competitive in its industry in cost and quality,'' macher said. ``we had not expected that this requirement ... would prove so difficult to achieve.''
norman willis, general secretary of the trades union congress, said he was calling two urgent meetings on monday to discuss the ford decision and to try to reverse it
the 12 ford unions would meet the same day, he said
gavin laird, leader of the amalgamated engineering union which represents about two-thirds of ford's more than 32,000 hourly workers, said he was pressing ford's senior management for a top-level meeting at its detroit headquarters early next week to try to save the plant
however, a ford spokesman in detroit, john emmert, said later in a telephone interview with independent television news: ``there is no chance that the decision will be changed.''
the deal's opponents feared workers at the dundee plant would earn lower wages than workers at ford's 21 other british plants
state officials moved friday to recover $40 million they say american telephone &amp; telegraph co. has added unfairly to the telephone bills of connecticut customers during the last two years
in a complaint filed with the federal communications commission, the officials challenged the telephone company's right to add a 7.3 percent surcharge on long-distance charges to recoup the gross-receipts tax it pays in connecticut
they argued that the surcharge imposed in connecticut and nine other states violates the longstanding practice of having uniform telephone rates across the country
the other states where the surcharge is imposed are: florida, maine, maryland, new york, rhode island, vermont, virginia, west virginia and wisconsin, according to the complaint filed with the fcc
since the early days of the telephone company, this country was built upon having an average rate throughout the country,'' consumer counsel james f. meehan said in announcing the action
the thought was that people in montana should be able to call people in hartford at the same rate that people in hartford ... call people in montana,'' he said
meehan and attorney general joseph i. lieberman have formed an alliance with the state department of public utility control in challenging federal regulators for allowing at&amp;t to impose the surcharge
the complaint seeks to recover the $40 million collected by at&amp;t so far and to eliminate the surcharge
the fcc allowed at&amp;t to add the surcharge in states with a gross-receipts tax on long-distance companies starting in april 1986. the surcharge in connectict was initially 3.6 percent, but rose to 7.3 percent in january
at&amp;t is the only long-distance carrier regulated by the fcc, although other long-distance companies such as sprint and mci also add the surcharge to their bills, meehan said
at&amp;t officials responded that figuring the gross receipts tax into its national rates would be unfair to customers elsewhere in the country
only connecticut residents benefit from the state gross receipts tax on telecommunications companies, and therefore connecticut customers should pay those extra costs of doing business,'' said paul karoff, an at&amp;t spokesman in connecticut
meehan said at&amp;t came up with the idea of imposing the surcharge in the 10 states with a gross receipts tax in order to generate millions of dollars that would allow it to reduce rates
connecticut officials contend it is unfair given that the actual cost providing telephone service is lower in here than in many other parts of the country because of the high volume of business. connecticut is the 10th-largest telecommunications market in the united states and generates about $550 million in annual revenues for at&amp;t, meehan said
also, at&amp;t doesn't add surcharges to recover other types of taxes it pays, they said
the officials acknowledged it may be difficult to convince the fcc to hold a hearing on the complaint, particularly since the fcc previously approved the surcharge. they vowed to take the case to court if the fcc refuses to hear it
there are fundamental issues of how rates are set in the country,'' meehan said. ``if we are successful, i think create some new case law that will have major impact on rate setting practices throughout the federal system.''
domino's pizza inc. advertises ``domino's delivers,'' and the company delivered its annual report this year in an unmistakably shaped 12\-inch-by-12\-inch flip-open box
that would be a small medium,'' said ron hingst, one of those involved in what has become a tradition of non-traditional annual reports
the 1986 version was in the form of a spiral school-style notebook with tabbed dividers for different subjects. an earlier report came with a set of dominos
it's a chance for the financial guys to play marketing,'' hingst said
this year's pizza-style box contained a cardboard jigsaw puzzle of the domino's pizza name and trademark, and the report, with a quotation from thomas s. monaghan, chairman and founder, on the cover: ``1987 was the year we worked hard to pull all the pieces together.''
along with sections on areas such as development and service, the report gave financial results reported earlier: net income of $7.7 million on total revenue of $883.7 million for 1987, up from $7.1 million on revenue of $721.6 million for 1986
because domino's is privately-held, its annual report goes to suppliers, media contacts, and other people and companies it deals with, hingst said
here are the major business events and economic events scheduled for the coming week (some dates are tentative):

washington _ the treasury department is to release its monthly report on government income and outlays during february; due at 2 p.m. est
washington _ the supreme court issues orders today, possibly announces decisions tuesday and wednesday and hears arguments today, tuesday and wednesday
new york _ a federal court hearing is scheduled on prudential insurance co. of america's attempt to overturn a clerical error that could cost it tens of millions of dollars on a lien for eight container ships owned by united states lines

washington _ the commerce department is to report on durable goods orders for february; due at 8:30 a.m. est
lagos, nigeria _ opec president rilwanu lukman has scheduled a news conference at which he says he will annnounce new measures intended to bring stability to oil prices
white plains, n.y. _ a bankruptcy court hearing is scheduled to announce the results of the vote by texaco inc. shareholders on the company's reorganization plan and to hear arguments on whether the judge should confirm the plan
houston _ first city bancorporation of texas inc. extended its deadline to today for debt holders to redeem their securities at a discount under a federal bailout plan for the bank

washington _ the commerce department reports its second revision of the growth estimate for the nation's gross national product during the fourth quarter; due at 8:30 a.m. est
washington _ the labor department is to release the consumer price index for february; due at 8:30 a.m. est
washington _ the commerce department is to report on corporate profits for the fourth quarter; due at 8:30 a.m. est
washington _ the labor department is reporting on american's inflation-adjusted earnings for february; due at 2 p.m. est

washington _ the commerce department is to report on personal income for february; due at 10 a.m. est
lompoc, calif. _ ivan boeskey is scheduled to surrender to federal authorities to begin serving a three-year sentence at the lompoc minimum security prison

nothing scheduled
stock prices kept climbing today, extending the advance that has carried the market to its highest levels since black monday last fall
the dow jones average of 30 industrials rose 8.79 to 2,094.83 by 2 p.m. on wall street
gainers outnumbered losers by about 7 to 5 in the overall tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 847 up, 586 down and 481 unchanged
activity was swollen by the quarterly ``triple witching hour'' involving a group of expiring options and futures on stock indexes that are used in large-scale computer program trading
settlement of one key futures contract was done based on stock prices as of the opening today. reports from the nyse of preopening order imbalances were on the buy side
the rest of the settlement process was slated to be conducted at the close
beyond that, analysts said the market was still benefiting from thursday's news of a smaller-than-expected trade deficit in january, with imports exceeding exports by $12.44 billion
firestone tire &amp; rubber led the active list and jumped 15{ to 78. the company agreed thursday to be acquired by bridgestone of japan for $80 a share, in a deal that topped a previous $58-a-share bid by pirelli group of italy
gainers among the blue chips included ford motor, up \ at 44~; exxon, up ] at 44], and merck, up 2 at 160}. however, general electric dropped { to 44[ and international business machines was down ] at 114{
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks rose .55 to 153.23. at the american stock exchange, the market value index was up .97 at 299.96
volume on the big board came to 180.65 million shares with two hours to go
nestle s.a., the giant swiss multinational food group, friday said it agreed to acquire the commercial and industrial holdings of italy's buitoni food group for 1.6 trillion lire, or $1.2 billion
nestle said it was buying buitoni's operations from cie. industriali riunite spa (cir), a key holding of italian financier carlo de benedetti
under the specifics of the transaction, cir will sell all the operating units of buitoni spa, its chocolate and confectionary company perugina spa, and buitoni s.a., the french holding which controls buitoni's foreign operations
the acquisition represents the end of de benedetti's dream of creating a major european food conglomerate, which was frustrated by his failure to gain control of societe meridionale finanzaria spa (sme), italy's major state-run food group
the sale also raises a considerable sum of cash to help de benedetti in his fight to gain control of societe generale de belgique, belgium's biggest company
cir acquired control of buitoni in 1985 with an initial investment of 25 billion lire, $20 million at today's exchange rates, which was subsequently increased to 160 billion lire
given the size of the initial investment, analysts said de benedetti had achieved a remarkable return on his original investment
it looks as if the engineer (de benedetti) has pulled out of the food industry in style. the problem was that buitoni didn't reach sufficient critical mass,'' said giovanni raimondi, an analyst with milan brokerage studio aletti
in 1987, the buitoni group earned consolidated net income before payments to minority interests of $40.8 million, up from a loss of $37.6 million in 1984
buitoni produces pasta, crackers and sauces in italy, france and britain. the perugia-based buitoni group also includes perugina, one of italy's leading chocolate producers as well as davigel s.a. of france, which produces frozen food and food services, olio sasso spa, an edible oils group and vismara spa, a meat producer
the buitoni group, which employs some 8,000 people, earned 39 percent of its revenue in italy in 1987, 36 percent in france, 16 percent in britain, 4 percent in the rest of europe and 5 percent in the rest of the world
nestle said it was particularly interested in the acquisiton of buitoni because it would give it a niche in the market for typically italian foods, such as pasta. it also will mesh perugina with its own chocolate sector. final decision on dropping its bid, today's stock action. picks up 10th graf: yeiri said ...</note>
japan's bridgestone corp. agreed to buy firestone tire &amp; rubber co. for nearly $2.6 billion in cash, an offer that leaped far beyond a rival bid for firestone from the italian tiremaker pirelli spa
pirelli, which offered $1.93 billion for firestone, said today from its headquarters in milan, italy, that it would not increase its offer. later, in a statement issued in new york, the company said it would wait before making a final decision on dropping its current offer
firestone directors announced the agreement to bridgestone's $80-a-share offer late thursday, and recommended that shareholders reject the pirelli bid
firestone stock, which had closed at $62.50 a share on thursday, shot up to $78 by midafternoon on the new york stock exchange
bridgestone and firestone had announced an agreement in mid-february that called for the japanese company to buy 75 percent of firestone's worldwide tire manufacturing business for $1.5 billion
but after pirelli launched its bid last week, bridgestone, faced with losing the world's fourth largest tire manufacturer, decided to bid for the entire company
we never considered backing away from our agreement with firestone to become its partner in operating its worldwide tire businesses,'' bridgestone president akira yeiri said. ``the merger agreement merely represents an expansion and extension of our original agreement.''
in its statement in milan, pirelli said it would not raise its bid
pirelli has always said that its offer would be limited by its evaluation of industrial logic,'' the statement said. ``the figure offered by bridgestone does not fit into such logic.''
but pirelli added in the later statement that it would wait until bridgestone formally began its tender offer for firestone before deciding whether to terminate its own offer
yeiri said his company planned to keep firestone's worldwide tire operations headquarters in akron, ohio, under existing management. all of firestone's north american plants will stay in operation
firestone chairman john j. nevin said a bridgestone subsidiary would begin a cash tender offer within the next few days for all of firestone's 32 million outstanding shares. the offer is subject to at least two-thirds of the shares being tendered and approval of the deal by firestone shareholders
bridgestone also has an option to acquire up to 5.8 million shares held by firestone's treasury, a ``lock-up'' option typically granted to discourage hostile suitors
firestone ranks fourth in tire sales worldwide, behind industry leader goodyear, michelin and bridgestone, according to industry estimates
in the fiscal year ending october 1987, firestone had net income of $1.45 million, or $3.96 a share, on sales of $3.87 billion
firestone's agreement with bridgestone was a major blow to pirelli, which wants a foothold in the u.s. tire market, the world's largest. pirelli has a nominal 1.5 percent share of the u.s. market
sources close to pirelli said pirelli will continue to seek new markets
there are always new opportunities in the u.s.,'' said one source, speaking on condition of anonymity
with the failure of its bid, pirelli is canceling an agreement with france's michelin group. pirelli had agreed to sell firestone's retails stores division, its brazilian operations and some other assets to michelin for as much as $800 million if its bid succeeded
that agreement (with michelin) was contingent on us acquiring firestone, so that goes up in the air,'' a pirelli spokesman said
there's nothing roger kropf likes less than a bruised apple
for years the lowell fruit grower has looked for a way to package the perfect fruit _ and to keep it that way during the long haul to the supermarket and, eventually, the consumer's kitchen
but no matter how we handle the product here, it can be damaged any time, starting at the point the trucks are unloaded at the store up until the consumer puts it in the refrigerator,'' said kropf, president of kropf fruit co
kropf's company grows and markets its own apples, peaches and plums and markets fruit for about 100 other growers across michigan
kropf wrestled with a variety of ideas on how to protect produce from damage in shipment, but it took a trip to an egg-carton company to get the answer
i was standing in the production area of a company which makes polyfoam products and watching them make egg cartons,'' kropf said. ``i thought, `good lord, if they can protect eggs, they ought to be able to protect apples.'''
kropf began exploring the idea last year with dolco of decatur, ill. after a lengthy testing period, the two companies produced a deep-blue, polyfoam container with wings to distribute the weight of stacked packages without damaging the fruit
kropf's company began marketing fruit in the new containers in january
much like the egg carton, kropf's new container is a 12-pack. the container and contents are covered with a clear, plastic film providing a view of the fruit
the fruit is shipped in the specially designed packages and kept in them while on retailers' shelves. a 3-pound package of apples averages about 25 cents more than the 3-pound, plastic bag of apples now found in supermarket produce departments
this is really geared for only about 10 percent of the market, for the clientele willing to pay a bit more for quality fruit,'' said steve krampe, sales manager for the company
kropf ships his fruit throughout the united states east of the rockies and exports to foreign countries
but the company isn't stopping at shipping the perfect apple. it also plans to develop the special packaging for shipping peaches
we're very excited about the possibilities with peaches,'' said krampe. ``they bruise even more easily than apples.''
the public may be able to buy shares this spring in sotheby's holdings inc., the world's richest art auction house said friday
a statement from the u.s.-owned private company said the share flotation will be in london and new york
the flotation was originally planned for last fall but was postponed when stock markets crashed in october
since the stock market downturn ... the international art market has remained strong, with record prices continuing to be set in many collecting areas,'' the statement said
the announcement followed swiftly on a report in london's evening standard newspaper that the flotation is planned for late april and values the firm at ``slightly less than 300 million pounds,'' or $546 million
that was 100 million pounds, or $182 million, less than the pre-crash valuation, the report added
alfred taubman, the michigan shopping mall tycoon, gained control of sotheby's in september 1983 at a cost of 83 million pounds, or $124.5 million at the time
sotheby's said a spring flotation would depend on ``favorable stock market conditions'' and no definite sale date was set
the evening standard said a complex share-voting structure is planned which would leave control with taubman
sotheby's is being advised on the flotation by the wall street house of salomon brothers and british merchant bank lazard brothers and co. ltd
the founder and ex-president of an irradiation company and a leading spokesman for the food preservation process was indicted friday on charges he ordered workers to bypass safety precautions and lied about it to federal regulators
the company, radiation technology inc. of morris plains, wednesday pleaded guilty to related charges involving violations at its rockaway plant. rti irradiates medical products and spices
company founder martin welt had planned to plead guilty to unspecified charges in the case the same day but withdrew from a plea agreement at the last moment, said prosecutors in the u.s. attorney's newark office
welt, 55, of denville, withdrew as rti's president in mid-1986 after the federal nuclear regulatory commission temporarily suspended the company's license for the safety violations
he has been one of the process's most vocal supporters, touting it in the media and making a promotional trip to china last year. welt also was a physicist with the nrc's predecessor, the atomic energy commission
also named in the 11-count indictment was william jouris, 48, of littleton, mass. in 1985, jouris was a resident nuclear engineer and operations manager at the rockaway plant, the indictment said
welt and jouris were charged with conspiracy to defraud the nrc, making false statements and violating the atomic energy act. welt also was charged with obstruction of justice
welt's attorney, theodore h. wells, said he had not seen the indictment and could not comment. he also refused to comment on the apparent breakdown in plea negotiations. welt did not return a message left on his answering machine
jouris could not be reached for comment. he did not return a message left on his home answering machine. attorney robert fettweis, who prosecutors said has represented jouris, did not return a message left at his office
the indictment said the defendants bypassed or told others to bypass ``conveyor door safety interlocks'' at the rockaway plant. the devices automatically lower the radiation source, in this case cobalt 60, into a protective pool when a human or an object other than the product to be irradiated enters the area
welt ordered the locks routinely bypassed starting in april 1984, the indictment said, and sought to impede an nrc investigation into the matter
the criminal investigation grew out of the nrc probe, which led to a pair of temporary license suspensions in 1986
welt called a meeting and threatened rti workers with dismissal if they didn't lie to investigators, the indictment said
jouris was accused of removing a radiation safety monitor that prevented workers from being inadvertently exposed to radiation
the company has said no worker or member of the public was harmed because of the violations
assistant u.s. attorney jacqueline c. wolff said authorities know of at least one worker who entered the cell area while products were being irradiated, but said the worker suffered no immediate injury
she said it was difficult to measure the health affects of the safety violations because the results of low-level dosages don't appear until years later
she said the safety interlocks frequently malfunctioned, preventing the irradiation process from going on, so company officials bypassed them to keep operating
the indictment said jouris and welt lied to the nrc about the installation of a new conveyor door safety system at the rockaway plant, telling regulators during a routine inspection that it had tested a new system in tandem with the old system for two weeks before dismantling the old one
instead, the indictment charged, the old system was taken apart and the new one installed without testing
welt faces up to 37 years in prison if convicted and jouris faces 22 years
rti also has operations in salem, n.j., west memphis, ark., and haw river, n.c
stock prices turned downward today, running into some resistance at their highest levels since black monday last fall
the dow jones average of 30 industrials, up more than 10 points in early trading, was down 5.64 at 2,080.40 by 3 p.m. on wall street
gainers outnumbered losers by about 5 to 4 in the overall tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 661 up, 806 down and 479 unchanged
activity was swollen by the quarterly ``triple witching hour'' involving a group of expiring options and futures on stock indexes that are used in large-scale computer program trading
settlement of one key futures contract was done based on stock prices as of the opening today. reports from the nyse of preopening order imbalances were on the buy side
the rest of the settlement process was slated to be conducted at the close
beyond that, analysts said the market drew some added benefit from thursday's news of a smaller-than-expected trade deficit in january, with imports exceeding exports by $12.44 billion
but as the session passed prices fell back as traders moved to cash in on the market's recent gains
firestone tire &amp; rubber led the active list and jumped 15[ to 77|. the company agreed thursday to be acquired by bridgestone of japan for $80 a share, in a deal that topped a previous $58-a-share bid by pirelli group of italy
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks fell .35 to 152.33. at the american stock exchange, the market value index was up .50 at 299.49
volume on the big board came to 205.94 million shares with an hour to go
wheat futures prices advanced while soybeans and corn skidded lower friday on the chicago board of trade
wheat was about the only market that showed any strength,'' said victor lespinasse, a trader with dean witter reynolds inc
soybeans dropped about a nickel a bushel despite heavy buying again friday by a large speculator who triggered a strong rally on thursday
friday's buying by the c &amp; d commodities was accompanied by heavy selling of soybean options, negating any strong response by other traders, said lespinasse
he said beans were under pressure from selling by south american interests and by traders unloading contracts before the weekend
increased farmer selling overnight weakened the corn market
a rumor that the agriculture department was about to make an announcement of a large offer of subsidized wheat helped that grain, said lespinasse
on the close, wheat was 1 cent to 3{ cents higher with the contract for delivery in march at $2.99{ a bushel; corn was { cent to 1\ cents lower with march at $1.97} a bushel; oats were \ cent lower to 3} cents higher with march at $1.96 a bushel; and soybeans were 1} cents to 6 cents lower with march at $6.20 a bushel
a top officer at lotus development corp. has resigned from the computer software company over management disagreements with the firm's chairman and other senior executives, the company said friday
charles j. digate, 34, a senior vice president in charge of the company's analytic software group, resigned thursday ``under mutual agreement,'' a company statement said
but company sources quoted in several published reports said digate's resignation was urged by lotus chairman jim p. manzi, 36, because his brusk style upset other top executives
digate, who joined lotus in 1983 from the european products division at texas instruments, played a key role in development of new software products, including the best-selling lotus 1-2-3 programs. he also helped expand the company's growth in european and japanese markets
he was assigned nine months ago to the the analytical software group, which includes the 1-2-3 programs
digate's abrupt resignation raised questions that problems may exist with the scheduled june introduction of lotus 1-2-3 release 3, an upgraded version of the company's spreadsheet package, but a company statement said there are no changes in the schedule for the program
lotus is expected to replace digate with someone from outside the company
bridgestone corp. of japan plans to create the most-technologically advanced tire company in the world when it purchases firestone tire &amp; rubber co., bridgestone president akira yeiri said friday
firestone's board of directors recommended thursday that shareholders accept bridgestone's offer to purchase firestone's 32 million outstanding shares for $80 a share. bridgestone was spurred to make the $2.6 billion offer thursday because of an unsolicited offer from italian tiremaker pirelli spa
pirelli did not make a counter offer friday. the italian firm said in a news release that it will await the merger of bridgestone and firestone before making a final decision on terminating its $58-a-share offer
firestone shareholders meet in akron on tuesday
yeiri said bridgestone, which employs 32,500 people worldwide, wants to become a global tiremaker with the most efficient production facilities and the most effective marketing organization in the world
the bridgestone-firestone alliance brings together many complimentary strengths,'' yeiri told a news conference at firestone's north american tire headquarters in akron. ``together we have the design and manufacturing capability necessary to build high-quality tires and to improve our global competitive position.''
bridgestone plans to keep firestone's corporate offices in chicago and its north american tire headquarters in akron, he said. all of firestone's north american plants will remain in operation, he said
in the meantime, bridgestone still plans to move its north american sales operation from los angeles to nashville, tenn. bridgestone purchased a plant outside nashville from firestone in 1983
firestone employs 55,000 people worldwide, including 1,650 in the akron area. the company has streamlined itself to the number of employees needed to operate effectively, yeiri said. no changes are planned in firestone management, he said
the two operations complement one another, yeiri said. firestone has production plants in the united states, canada, europe and latin america, he said, while bridgestone has a strong sales network in asia and australia
yeiri also noted that firestone provides original equipment to ford and general motors and has made considerable progress in the international market with porche, volvo, audi and volkswagon. original equipment is bridgestone's weakest area, he said
although financing for the purchase hasn't been worked out, yeiri said he thinks 50 percent of the purchase price will come from bridgestone assets, and bridgestone will borrow the rest. the japanese tire maker decided $80 a share would be a fair offer after consulting with investment bankers, he said
in mid-february, firestone announced an agreement to sell 75 percent of its worldwide tire manufacturing business to bridgestone for $1.5 billion. but that agreement was in jeopardy after pirelli launched its tender offer for the entire company last week
akron officials were pleased about bridgestone's plans to keep firestone's akron operations intact
the commitment to say we're going to do everything we can to keep the operations in place with everyone working where they are _ it's good news for akron,'' said mayor don plusquellic
stock prices declined slightly today in an erratic session
five minutes before the close, the dow jones average of 30 industrials was down 1.16 at 2,084.88
stock prices turned in an inconclusive showing today, meeting with some resistance from sellers at their highest levels since black monday last fall
activity was swollen by the quarterly ``triple witching hour'' involving a group of expiring options and futures on stock indexes that are used in large-scale computer program trading
settlement of one key futures contract was done based on stock prices as of the opening today. reports from the nyse of preopening order imbalances were on the buy side
the rest of the settlement process was conducted at the close, with a few preclosing order imbalances leaning to the sell side
beyond that, analysts said the market drew some added benefit from thursday's news of a smaller-than-expected trade deficit in january, with imports exceeding exports by $12.44 billion
but prices fell back from their midsession peaks as traders moved to cash in on the market's recent gains
steel imports rose from december to january and were sharply higher than in january 1987, the american iron and steel institute said thursday
the additional tonnage came almost entirely from developing nations not covered by the reagan administration's voluntary import quotas, the washington-based producers' group said
the january imports, as reported to aisi by the commerce department, were 1.81 million tons, up 7 percent from 1.69 million tons in december and up 24 percent from 1.46 million tons in january 1987
preliminary figures suggest foreign metal captured 22 percent of the domestic market, up from 20 percent in january and higher than the 20 percent target set for the quota plan. stock price</note>
pillsbury co.'s report of a larger-than-expected quarterly loss ended a two-day run-up in its stock price that was spurred by takeover speculation, but analysts said friday that the company remained vulnerable
i don't think anything has really changed,'' said craig carver of dain bosworth inc. in minneapolis. ``i think this company is still a very strong takeover possibility even though the stock has traded down somewhat today.''
in active trading on the new york stock exchange, pillsbury closed down $2.50 to $42.87{
speculation that the minneapolis food and restaurant giant was a takeover target had pushed the company's stock up more than $7 a share from wednesday to thursday
but that trend reversed friday. pillsbury announced thursday it lost $107.8 million during its third fiscal quarter, $50 million more than anticipated and a sharp downturn from the $48.5 million, or 56-cents-a-share profit posted in the year-ago period
sales during the quarter fell to $1.5 billion from $1.53 billion a year earlier
william spoor, pillsbury chairman and chief executive, said the quarterly loss stemmed from $140.9 million in restructuring charges to close businesses, restaurant properties and plants. he said he expected earnings to decline in fiscal 1988, which ends may 31
pillsbury said it would continue streamlining its troubled restaurant and food groups and was negotiating to sell its godfather's pizza chain. the company said it would rally around its core businesses, such as burger king and haagen-dazs ice cream
the moves, however, failed to impress analysts
godfather's is a drop in the bucket in this whole company,'' carver said. ``i would think regardless of what they do short of going out and making a major acquisition in an attempt to make themselves unattractive is not going to deter a possible raider or for that matter a friendly buyout attempt.''
the sale of godfather's is unlikely to generate cash proceeds exceeding $50 million. to me, investors want more,'' added john m. mcmillin of prudential-bache securities in new york. ``i think people want more restructuring.''
the 580-unit godfather's chain, acquired by pillsbury in 1985, is being sold because it does not have ``near-term'' potential to be a ``major strategic component of pillsbury's portfolio,'' spoor said
pillsbury, which employs about 104,000 worldwide with 97,200 workers in the united states, had no comment friday on whether it had received any takeover offers
analysts have speculated that potential buyers for pillsbury included swiss-based nestle s.a., beatrice co. of chicago and new york investor saul steinberg
in a letter to shareholders thursday, spoor said he was committed to keeping pillsbury independent
the dow jones average of 30 industrials edged up 1.33 to 2,087.37, stretching its gain for the week to 52.39 points
but declining issues outnumbered advances by about 7 to 6 on the new york stock exchange, with 699 up, 824 down and 440 unchanged
big board volume totaled 245.75 million shares, against 211.92 million in the previous session. the nyse's composite index slipped .07 to 152.61
the dollar turned mixed in domestic dealings friday after rising overseas, as uneasiness set in over the upcoming close of japan's fiscal year and the long-term prospects for the u.s. economy
gold prices were mostly higher. republic national bank of new york said gold was bid at $444 a troy ounce as of 4 p.m. est, up from $443.40 an ounce late thursday
analysts said the dollar had a slightly firmer tone and continued to draw support from better-than-expected trade figures released thursday
but there's fear that we'll see trade numbers in the future that are not that good,'' said earl i. johnson, a vice president at harris trust and savings bank in chicago
there's still a lot of uncertainty about the economy,'' he said
analysts said there also is concern about what effect the end of japan's fiscal year will have on the u.s. currency
some speculate that japanese dealers will keep the dollar steady through the year's march 31 close so they will not have to write down losses on their portfolios. ``but there's a fear they might dump dollars'' after that, johnson said
in addition, ``there is a growing fear that because the japanese economy is so strong, the bank of japan might tighten monetary policy,'' thereby hiking interest rates, said james o'neill, vice president and financial markets economist at marine midland bank
under that scenario, the dollar would fall as japanese-u.s. interest rate differentials narrowed, he said
in tokyo, the dollar closed at 128.35 japanese yen, up from 127.43 yen thursday. in later london trading, the dollar was holding steady at 128.35 yen. in new york, the dollar fell to 128.00 yen from 128.75 yen on thursday
in london, the british pound fell to $1.8235 from $1.8385 late thursday. in new york trading, it cost $1.8240 to buy one pound, less expensive than thursday's $1.8330
other late dollar rates in new york, compared with late thursday, included: 1.69575 west german marks, up from 1.69165; 1.4040 swiss francs, down from 1.4045; 5.7590 french francs, up from 5.7455; 1,255.50 italian lire, up from 1.252.50, and 1.24885 canadian dollars, down from 1.24925
other late dollar rates in europe, compared with late thursday, included: 1.6950 west german marks, up from 1.6775; 1.4010 swiss francs, up from 1.3940; 5.7480 french francs, up from 5.7175; 1.9010 dutch guilders, up from 1.8885; 1,252.50 italian lire, up from 1,244.37, and 1.2495 canadian dollars, up from 1.2493
gold bullion closed at $445.20 a troy ounce on the new york commodity exchange, up from $444.90 on thursday
in london, gold was quoted at a late bid price of $443.25 a troy ounce, up from $443 late thursday. gold was bid at $445 in zurich, unchanged from late thursday. earlier, the metal closed in hong kong at a bid $446.39, down from $448.75
silver closed at $6.365 a troy ounce on new york's comex, up from $6.305 on thursday. earlier in london, silver bullion traded at a bid $6.31 a troy ounce, down from $6.34. up 4th graf pvs bg'ng, firestone shareholders ...</note>
bridgestone corp. of japan plans to create the most-technologically advanced tire company in the world when it purchases firestone tire &amp; rubber co., bridgestone president akira yeiri said friday
firestone's board of directors recommended thursday that shareholders accept bridgestone's offer to purchase firestone's 32 million outstanding shares for $80 a share. bridgestone was spurred to make the $2.6 billion offer thursday because of an unsolicited offer from italian tiremaker pirelli spa
pirelli did not make a counter offer friday. the italian firm said in a news release that it will await the merger of bridgestone and firestone before making a final decision on terminating its $58-a-share offer
firestone stock soared $15.25 a share to close at $77.75 friday on the new york stock exchange
firestone shareholders meet in akron on tuesday
yeiri said bridgestone, which employs 32,500 people worldwide, wants to become a global tiremaker with the most efficient production facilities and the most effective marketing organization in the world
the bridgestone-firestone alliance brings together many complimentary strengths,'' yeiri told a news conference at firestone's north american tire headquarters in akron. ``together we have the design and manufacturing capability necessary to build high-quality tires and to improve our global competitive position.''
bridgestone plans to keep firestone's corporate offices in chicago and its north american tire headquarters in akron, he said. all of firestone's north american plants will remain in operation, he said
in the meantime, bridgestone still plans to move its north american sales operation from los angeles to nashville, tenn. bridgestone purchased a plant outside nashville from firestone in 1983
firestone employs 55,000 people worldwide, including 1,650 in the akron area. the company has streamlined itself to the number of employees needed to operate effectively, yeiri said. no changes are planned in firestone management, he said
the two operations complement one another, yeiri said. firestone has production plants in the united states, canada, europe and latin america, he said, while bridgestone has a strong sales network in asia and australia
yeiri also noted that firestone provides original equipment to ford and general motors and has made considerable progress in the international market with porche, volvo, audi and volkswagon. original equipment is bridgestone's weakest area, he said
although financing for the purchase hasn't been worked out, yeiri said he thinks 50 percent of the purchase price will come from bridgestone assets, and bridgestone will borrow the rest. the japanese tire maker decided $80 a share would be a fair offer after consulting with investment bankers, he said
in mid-february, firestone announced an agreement to sell 75 percent of its worldwide tire manufacturing business to bridgestone for $1.5 billion. but that agreement was in jeopardy after pirelli launched its tender offer for the entire company last week
akron officials were pleased about bridgestone's plans to keep firestone's akron operations intact
the commitment to say we're going to do everything we can to keep the operations in place with everyone working where they are _ it's good news for akron,'' said mayor don plusquellic
stock prices bounced around in a narrow range friday, meeting with some resistance from sellers at their highest levels since black monday last fall
a quarterly ``triple witching hour'' passed without any dramatic swings in the market
the dow jones average of 30 industrials edged up 1.33 to 2,087.37, stretching its gain for the week to 52.39 points
but declining issues outnumbered advances by about 8 to 7 on the new york stock exchange, with 716 up, 807 down and 461 unchanged
big board volume totaled 245.75 million shares, against 211.92 million in the previous session. the nyse's composite index slipped .03 to 152.65
activity was swollen by the quarterly witching hour involving a group of expiring options and futures on stock indexes that are used in large-scale computer program trading
settlement of one key futures contract was done based on stock prices as of the opening. reports from the nyse of preopening order imbalances were on the buy side
the rest of the settlement process was conducted at the close, with a few preclosing order imbalances leaning to the sell side
beyond that, analysts said the market drew some added benefit from thursday's news of a smaller-than-expected trade deficit in january, with imports exceeding exports by $12.44 billion
but prices fell back from their midsession peaks as traders moved to cash in on the market's recent gains
takeover news and rumors continued at their recent frenetic pace
firestone tire &amp; rubber jumped 15\ to 77} in active trading. the company agreed thursday to be acquired by bridgestone of japan for $80 a share, in a deal that topped a previous $58-a-share bid by pirelli group of italy
roper corp. climbed 5} to 53. whirlpool corp. raised its offer for roper to $50 a share, surpassing a $45-a-share bid by general electric
grumman, which has been moving up lately on unconfirmed takeover rumors, rose 1~ to 25
sabine corp. gained 1} to 20{. the company, opposing a $20-a-share offer from presidio oil, said it was holding preliminary talks with another party
pillsbury dropped 2] to 43. the company reported a $107.8 million loss for the quarter ended feb. 28 and said its godfather's pizza restaurant chain might be sold
as measured by wilshire associates' index of more than 5,000 actively traded stocks, the market increased $0.29 billion, or 0.01 percent, in value
nationwide turnover in nyse-listed issues, including trades in those stocks on regional exchanges and in the over-the-counter market, totaled 274.91 million shares
standard &amp; poor's index of 400 industrials dropped .14 to 314.64, and s&amp;p's 500-stock composite index was down .10 at 271.12
the nasdaq composite index for the over-the-counter market rose .88 to 381.58. at the american stock exchange, the market value index closed at 299.11, up .12
less than a week before insider trader ivan f. boesky was to start serving a federal prison term, officials declined to discuss his whereabouts friday and there were indications he might already be in custody
the mystery of the ex-financier's location came against a background of death threats made against him, raising the possibility that he might have sought federal protection prior to his scheduled surrender date of march 24
boesky, the central figure in wall street's biggest insider trading scandal, was sentenced to a three-year prison term for securities fraud last dec. 18 by u.s. district judge morris e. lasker
the judge recommended that the ex-financier spend the time at a minimum security facility in lompoc, calif. he permitted boesky to remain free pending the surrender date
but according to the bureau of prison's computerized prison locator service in washington, boesky was listed as ``in transit,'' meaning he was no longer free on bail and was in custody
locator service dispatchers, who declined to be identified by name, said boesky had been assigned a prisoner identification number, 139-87-054. the last three digits indicated he was in the jurisdiction of the federal marshal's office in manhattan, they said
flip lorenzoni, an official of the marshal's office, said he could not comment on boesky's whereabouts and referred inquiries to a regional office in philadelphia
that office referred questions to bureau of prisons spokeswoman kathryn morse, who said a prison was chosen for boesky a few weeks ago but she declined to identify it until after his arrival, in accordance with government policy. she would not comment on whether boesky already had been placed in custody
john carroll, an assistant u.s. attorney handling the boesky case, declined to discuss boesky's whereabouts, saying, ``that's not a question i'm inclined to answer.''
boesky's attorney, theodore levine, did not return repeated telephone calls to his washington office
officials familiar with the federal prisoner assignment system said it was likely that boesky would go to lompoc, a former army barracks near the pacific coast about 150 miles northwest of los angeles
in a telephone interview, lompoc warden richard rison declined to confirm or deny boesky's impending arrival but said highly publicized prisoners tended to check in unannounced before their surrender deadline, in order to avoid press photographers at the gate
if i was speculating, i would say he won't be here on the 24th,'' rison said. ``i just wouldn't believe he'd plan to come with a lot of fanfare.''
rison emphasized his remarks did not necessarily mean boesky had been assigned to lompoc
formerly one of wall street's best-known speculators, boesky was fined a record $100 million in november 1986 to settle charges of insider trading, which is the illicit use of confidential corporate information to profit in securities trading
under a plea-bargain arrangement, boesky promised to cooperate in implicating others in exchange for pleading guilty to a single felony count _ conspiracy to lie to the sec, which carried a maximum punishment of five years imprisonment and $250,000 fine
boesky's cooperation has raised expectatations of major indictments for securities fraud on wall street
last month john mulheren, a former boesky friend and fellow stock speculator, was arrested on charges he plotted to kill boesky and a boesky aide because he thought they had implicated him
livestock futures prices advanced friday on the chicago mercantile exchange as traders jockeyed their positions before the government released its cattle-on-feed report
on other markets, oil futures moved higher for the fourth consecutive day, wheat was higher while corn and soybeans declined, and treasury bonds retreated sharply
the cattle-on-feed report, released by the agriculture department after the close of trading, was not far off from what was expected
the data probably will be only slightly bearish for the nearby april and june contracts, said chuck levitt, an analyst in chicago with shearson lehman hutton inc
the survey of seven leading cattle states indicated that there were 6 percent more cattle on feed as of march 1 than a year earlier. the number of animals placed on feed during february was 5 percent fewer than 12 months ago, while the marketings was put at 3 percent above the year-ago figure
because the distant contract months are at a substantial discount to the nearby deliveries, traders will be inclined to sell april and june deliveries and buy the back months, levitt said
live cattle settled .05 cent lower to .22 cent higher with the contract for delivery in april at 73.77 cents a pound; feeder cattle were .10 cent to .32 cent higher with march at 82.12 cents a pound; live hogs were .30 cent lower to .40 cent higher with april at 46.20 cents a pound; and frozen pork bellies were .25 cent lower to 1.65 cents higher with march at 55.80 cents a pound
oil futures prices advanced for the fourth consecutive day on the new york mercantile exchange
friday's advances were a continuation of a rally begun near the close of the previous session after opec president rilwanu lukman announced he'd have something to say next tuesday about stabilizing prices, said nauman barakat, a analyst in new york with smith barney, harris upham &amp; co
my feeling, though, is that they won't do anything but continue to talk up the market for a couple weeks,'' he said. ``after that, the seasonal demand for gasoline will pick up and so opec won't have to do anything to shore up prices.''
west texas intermediate crude oil settled 13 cents to 30 cents higher with the april contract at $16.58 a barrel; heating oil was .52 cent to .83 cent higher with april at 45.05 cents a gallon; and unleaded gasoline was .16 cent to .39 cent higher with april at 45.99 cents a gallon
treasury bond futures plunged sharply on the chicago board of trade, responding to what analysts said were renewed fears of inflation
thursday's balance of trade figures helped the dollar and the bond market initially, but further examination of the data gave the markets a different view, said jack barbanel, an analyst in new york with gruntal &amp; co
inflation fears came not only from the trade data, he said, but also from the rising crb index, which was partially influenced by the $1-a-barrel gain by oil over the last four sessions
treasury bonds lost 1 9-32 points, with the june contract settling at 91 1-32 points
wheat futures prices advanced while soybeans and corn skidded lower on the chicago board of trade
wheat was about the only market that showed any strength,'' said victor lespinasse, a trader with dean witter reynolds inc
soybeans dropped about a nickel a bushel despite heavy buying again friday by a large speculator who triggered a strong rally on thursday
friday's buying by the c &amp; d commodities was accompanied by heavy selling of soybean options, negating any strong response by other traders, said lespinasse
he said beans were under pressure from selling by south american interests and by traders unloading contracts before the weekend
increased farmer selling overnight weakened the corn market
a rumor that the agriculture department was about to make an announcement of a large offer of subsidized wheat helped that grain, said lespinasse
after the close, the usda said it offered the soviet union 1 million tons of wheat
wheat settled 1{ cents to 3{ cents higher with the march contract at $2.99 a bushel; corn was { cent to 1 cent lower with march at $1.98 a bushel; oats were unchanged to 3} cents higher with march at $1.96 a bushel; and soybeans were 3\ cents to 6 cents lower with march at $6.20 a bushel
precious metals futures posted gains on the commodity exchange in new york
gold was 30 cents higher with the april contract at $445.20 a troy ounce; and silver was 6 cents to 6.1 cents higher with march at $6.365 a troy ounce
young families trying to purchase their first home and low-income families struggling to meet escalating rental payments are two groups which have suffered the most from flawed housing policies in the 1980s, according to a new study released thursday
america is increasingly becoming a nation of housing haves and have-nots,'' said h. james brown, one of the authors of the report and the director of the joint center for housing studies at harvard university. ``while a majority of americans are well-housed, too many americans have not been able to share in this prosperity.''
the report, titled ``the state of the nation's housing,'' contended that the number of americans unable to secure decent and affordable housing was growing at an alarming rate. among its findings:
_since 1981, rental costs including utilities, have risen 14 percent faster than prices generally. after adjusting for inflation, rental costs are now at their highest level in two decades
_the steep increase in rental costs means that single-parent households must devote 58.4 percent of their incomes to rent, compared to 34.9 percent in 1974
_homeownership rates have fallen steadily during this decade, particularly among young people. in 1980, 43.3 percent of households in the 24-29 age group owned their own home, a figure that has now declined to 35.9 percent
_the after-tax cost of buying a typical first home in 1987 was $7,449, or 32.4 percent of the average annual income of potential first-time buyers, about 50 percent higher than the share of income required in the early 1970s
the study, which was financed by a grant from the ford foundation and several housing trade groups, did not make any recommendations for needed changes in government policy
the reagan administration has been criticized in the past for its efforts to scale back federal housing assistance programs, but brown said it was important to realize that the country's housing problems were a result of a number of forces which have been at work well before the current administration took office
in reacting to the report, carl d. covitz, undersecretary of the department of housing and urban development, said that the administration was proud of its efforts in the past seven years to boost housing subsidies to low-income families but realized ``much more needs to be done.''
it's never been easy for the typical family to buy their first home or for very low-income people to afford decent housing and the harvard study performs a valuable service by pointing up some of the very real problems still faced by many american families,'' covitz said in a statement
william apgar, another author of the report, said that one particular problem was that even minimal federal housing assistance was reaching only one in four families in need
only one in four rentor households with incomes at or below the poverty level live in public housing or receive some other form of federal housing assistance,'' apgar said
the nation's farm sector is continuing a strong recovery that began in 1987 with record-high net cash income, the agriculture department said thursday
cash income is still expected to recede from last year's $57 billion to between $50 billion and $55 billion in 1988, the department's economic research service said in a new outlook report
the projected decline will result from lower livestock receipts, rising expenses and lower government payments, the report said. those will more than offset a rise in 1988 crop receipts
net cash income is the difference between gross cash income and cash expenses in the calendar year
the income and debt-service problems that plagued agriculture during the 1980s have largely been weathered, although financial problems persist for some producers who acquired long-term debt at high interest rates,'' the report said
a major contributor to increased cash flow is a marked reduction in interest expenses since the difficult 1980-83 years.''
economists said receipts from crop sales are improving as a result of increased domestic and export demand for major commodities, including wheat and corn
receipts from livestock sales should be off slightly, as red meat and poultry production expands almost 2 percent and prices falter,'' the report said. ``fruit prices this spring will be below a year ago as larger supplies come to market.''
speculation that pillsbury co. had been targeted for a takeover bid sent the food and restaurant company's stock soaring for a second straight day thursday
pillsbury jumped $3.50 a share to close at $45.50 a share in heavy new york stock exchange composite trading. about 3.48 million shares changed hands compared with average trading volume in the stock of 1.1 million shares a day
analysts speculated that potential buyers included swiss-based nestle s.a., beatrice co. of chicago and new york investor saul steinberg
pillsbury spokesman johnny thompson declined to comment thursday on whether the company has received any offers. the company's rumored suitors earlier had also declined to comment
anything could be true here,'' said robert cummins, food industry analyst at wertheim schroder &amp; co. in new york. ``the main story is that nestle wants to acquire them for $55 per share.''
piper jaffray &amp; hopwood analyst stephen carnes said he suspects the rumors have pillbury's executives ``scrambling for an acquisition'' to increase their company's debt and make it a less desirable takeover target
the management at beatrice, which went private in 1986, has nearly finished retiring the debt incurred in its leveraged buyout of the company. under chairman donald kelly, beatrice has profited from divesting itself of some units and is said to be looking to acquire a whole food company
carnes said wednesday he doubts that kelly is interested in pillsbury for its ``breakup'' value. instead, carnes, a former pillsbury executive, said rumblings of a $55-a-share offer by nestle ``make more sense.''
analysts have been expecting pillsbury to announce a restructuring _ including the sale of its steak &amp; ale, bennigan's and godfather's restaurant operations _ since chairman john stafford resigned last month. interim chairman william spoor has insisted pillsbury's largest restaurant operation, the burger king fast-food chain, is not for sale
pillsbury's announcement in february of lower-than-expected earnings for the fiscal year ended in may preceded stafford's feb. 29 departure
roper corp. said friday it accepted a sweetened $470 million buyout offer from whirlpool corp., which filed suit charging that general electric corp. tried to ``sabotage'' the deal with a competing bid
roper said its board reviewed both offers before recommending whirlpool's $50-a-share cash tender offer to shareholders
on the new york stock exchange friday, roper's stock jumped $5.75 a share to close at $53
the bid tops the $37.50-a-share whirlpool offer made last month, which prompted a bidding war for the augusta, ga.-based maker of garden equipment and cooking ranges. on march 6, ge said it would pay $45 a share, or about $423 million, for roper's outstanding shares
whirlpool chairman david r. whitwam said the higher bid ``underscores whirlpool's determination to complete our agreed-upon merger with roper, despite the deliberate and heavy-handed interference of general electric.''
in a suit filed friday in u.s. district court in grand rapids, whirlpool charged that ge knew whirlpool and roper had signed an acquisition agreement and intentionally sought to block that merger
the suit seeks a court order barring ge from acquiring any interest in roper or interfering in a whirlpool-roper merger
whirlpool alleged that the head of ge's appliance business personally tried to persuade roper to break its contract with whirlpool. the suit said ge ``intentionally, maliciously and unjustifiedly engaged in a continuing course of conduct to sabotage'' the deal
bruce bunch, a spokesman at ge headquarters in fairfield, conn., said the lawsuit ``grossly misstates the facts and is utterly without merit.''
we clearly have not'' interfered, he said. ``our offer is directly to the roper shareowners.''
analysts say the merger will move whirlpool ahead of ge as the nation's leading appliance maker. whirlpool has said it would expand roper from a maker of ranges into a producer and marketer of a full line of appliances
roper has a strong desire to see this combination successfully completed,'' said roper chief executive officer robert cook. whirlpool's whitwam also noted that the merger is of strategic importance
on thursday, whirlpool and ge disclosed that the federal trade commission was investigating the outstanding tender offers for roper. both companies indicated they would respond promptly
whirlpool said in a statement that a thorough ftc review would ``conclude that a ge takeover would have serious anti-competitive effects.''
whirlpool extended its offer through midnight est march 31
bond prices dropped friday in active trading, pressured by resurgent anxiety about inflation
the losses were steepest in longer-maturing issues
the treasury's closely watched 30-year bond tumbled about 1{ point, or $15 for every $1,000 in face amount. its yield, which moves inversely to its price, soared to 8.67 percent from 8.53 percent late thursday
the retreat reversed a brisk increase on thursday, inspired by a government report on the u.s. merchandise trade deficit for january, which pushed the 30-year bond up about $7.50 per $1,000
analysts said bond prices were weakened by unconfirmed reports that the federal reserve is concerned about a possible reigniting of inflation, which erodes the value of fixed-income securities such as bonds. also, oil prices continued to rise friday, signaling a possible recurrence of inflation
on the new york mercantile exchange, contracts for april delivery of west texas intermediate, the benchmark u.s. crude oil, jumped 30 cents to $16.58 per 42-gallon barrel
the bond market got hit pretty hard,'' said jay goldinger, a principal of capital insight inc., an investment firm in beverly hills, calif. ``the market's scared of its shadow right now, and so it's running.''
in the secondary market for treasury bonds, prices of short-term government issues declined 3-16 point to 9-32 point, intermediate maturities fell ] point to 13-16 point, and 20-year issues dropped about 1 5-16 point, according to figures provided by telerate inc., a financial information service
the movement of a point is equivalent to a change of $10 in the price of a bond with a $1,000 face value
the merrill lynch daily treasury index, which measures price movements on all outstanding treasury issues with maturities of a year or longer, was down 0.59 at 112.34. the shearson lehman treasury bond index, which makes a similar measurement, dropped 7.17 to 1,175.03
moody's investment grade corporate bond index, which measures price movements on 80 corporate bonds with maturities of five years or longer, fell 1.19 to 283.08
in the municipal bond market, the bond buyer index of 40 actively traded general obligation and revenue bonds fell ] point to 88 15-32 as of 3 p.m. est. the average yield rose to 8.11 percent from 8.07 percent late thursday
yields on three-month treasury bills, meanwhile, jumped 13 basis points to 5.69 percent. a basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage point. six-month bills advanced 12 basis points to 5.84 percent and one-year bills rose 8 basis points to 6.26 percent
the federal funds rate, the interest on overnight loans between banks, was quoted late in the day at 6] percent, down from 6 7-16 percent late thursday. of union. picks up 3rd graf ``the meeting ...''</note>
international paper co. said friday it planned to begin discussions with union representatives aimed at resolving bitter labor disputes at several plants around the country
officials for the company and the united paperworkers international union said they had agreed to meet with intermediaries within the next several weeks
the meetings are intended to defuse the hostility between management and labor and set up a framework for pursuing the company's labor problems on a local level, the company said
the company and the union have been at odds for more than a year over contracts that have come up for renewal. at the heart of the disagreements is the issue of whether local contracts should restore premium pay for sundays and holidays
premium pay had been eliminated with labor's approval from past contracts, but since the industry's fortunes have improved in the last year, the union has campaigned to revive the benefit
the parties recognize that continuation of the adversarial relationship is not in the best interests of either party and have committed themselves not only to resolution of the current disputes but to building a proper relationship for the future,'' said a statement released from the company's headquarters in purchase, n.y
bob frase, assistant to the president of the union, which is based in nashville, tenn., said the union was encouraged by the prospect of the talks
anytime we can sit down and talk, that's positive,'' said frase
but he cautioned, as did the company, that the talks would not involve formal contract negotiations. a final resolution of the disputes, affecting at least seven plants, might be hammered out later at the local level, the company suggested
about 3,500 workers in four locations are embroiled in contract fights. in mobile, ala., 1,200 workers have been locked out of their jobs by the company; while an additional 2,300 have struck plants in jay, maine; lock haven, pa.; and depere, wis., frase said
contracts also are open pine bluff and camden, ark., and natchez, miss., said holly kinser, a spokeswoman for the company
analysts who follow international paper said the talks were a step in the right direction
it can be significant, if out of it comes a settlement,'' said lawrence ross of the investment firm painewebber group inc
although the company's plants have continued to operate through the disturbances, the analysts said the bitter struggle with the union has hindered the company's performance at a time when the industry has turned profitable
the mills are all running (with replacement workers), but efficiency has been affected,'' said mark rogers of prudential-bache securities inc
the company said it earned $305 million in 1986 and expects to post earnings of $407 million for 1987 when final figures are released next week. however, the company said its profitability was below the industry average in both 1986 and 1987, when measured in terms of its net worth
the announcement said the company and the union had asked malcolm r. lovell jr., a professor of government and business at george washington university, and gayle wineriter, special assistant to the director of the federal mediation and conciliation service, to assist in the talks
the stock market greeted the news indifferently, sending international paper shares down 25 cents to $44.37{ per share in new york stock exchange trading
a federal judge friday set a january court date in polaroid corp.'s $5.7 billion patent infringement claim against eastman kodak co
judge rya zobel set a jan. 9, 1989, trial date in the 12-year-old case and ordered pre-trial evidence be presented to the court on july 27
in 1985, zobel ruled that kodak had infringed on seven of about 150 polaroid patents on instant cameras and film
in january 1986, zobel barred the rochester, n.y.-based kodak from the instant photography business, pioneered by polaroid
the damage award amount, filed last month in federal court in boston, has increased polaroid stock value and also triggered speculation that a corporate raider may seek control of the cambridge-based company in anticipation of a big settlement
kodak, however, has labeled the claim as ``ludicrous'' and excessively high. several analysts predict a settlement between $1 billion to $2 billion
a $1 billion award would translate to about $10 per share for polaroid
polaroid, which was trading in the low $20 a share before the damage claim was announced, closed friday down { at $34\ on the new york stock exchange. kodak closed down } at $42
polaroid claims $3.2 billion in lost camera and film sales and seeks an additional $2.5 billion for lost opportunities to develop and market new products
polaroid, which introduced instant photography in 1948, held a monopoly in the field until kodak entered the market in the late 1970s
polaroid camera sales peaked at 7.5 million in 1978 before sinking to 3.4 million in 1984. sales rebounded to 4.4 million in 1986 after the introduction of the spectra camera, which offered better quality prints, but fell 16 percent last year
polaroid next month plans to introduce two new cameras, the spectra 600 and image
black &amp; decker corp. friday sweetened its bid again for american standard inc. to $77 per share, or about $2.4 billion cash, one day after the plumbing conglomerate's board approved a $78-per-share leveraged buyout
we believe that our offer of $77 in the light of timing and probability of payment (from the leveraged buyout) represents a better choice for american standard stockholders,'' black &amp; decker chairman nolan b. archibald said in a statement
american standard, which has fought black &amp; decker's bid for nearly two months, said after a marathon board meeting thursday that it would recommend its stockholders accept a $2.45 billion cash offer led by kelso &amp; co., a new york investment banking firm specializing in employee-led leveraged buyouts
the kelso buyout plan _ under which an employee stock ownership plan, or esop, would acquire 20 percent of the company _ topped black &amp; decker's previous bid of $73 a share, or $2.3 billion
stephen f. page, black &amp; decker's treasurer and vice president for finance, said officials of the towson, md.-based tool and appliance maker were confident they could acquire american standard. but he indicated they were reaching their limit
it's always tough to say never,'' page said. ``but i don't see what would be there to make us go higher. i just have a hard time seeing anything there.''
american standard spokeswoman lois stewart said the company would have no comment
black &amp; decker initially proposed a buyout at $65 a share, later sweetening its bid to $68 and finally to $73, before making its latest bid
american standard fell 50 cents to close at $75.87{ a share on the new york stock exchange friday. black &amp; decker closed at $20.62{, up $1.12{ a share
american standard has about 31.5 million common shares outstanding
black &amp; decker's bid came despite analysts' speculation thursday that the bidding war for american standard was over, citing the size of the premium kelso was offering over the market price
but black &amp; decker said it hiked the bid again ``after reviewing the information supplied by american standard (and) after a due diligence session with american standard management.''
black &amp; decker also cited a delaware court ruling on tuesday ``invalidating the golden parachute and pension fund lock-up put into place by american standard after black &amp; decker commenced its offer.''
archibald said the action of the court ``would have justified an additional increase, but we have to take into account the break-up fees and other costs that american standard has incurred since the date of that decision.''
black &amp; decker set midnight march 31 as an expiration date for its tender offer
american standard, a maker of plumbing and air conditioning equipment, said its definitive agreement with kelso is subject to kelso obtaining necessary financing
american standard said kelso planned to finance the deal through a $1.8 billion loan to be syndicated by bankers trust co.; a $900 million short-term ``bridge'' loan from first boston securities corp., an affiliate of the investment bank; and $250 million of common equity from kelso and certain institutional investors
kelso specializes in leveraged buyouts involving employee stock ownership plans, or esops, a concept it pioneered about 30 years ago
the company added it expected a newly formed esop would acquire about 20 percent of american standard's common shares
in a leveraged buyout, a company is acquired largely through borrowed money repaid from the target company's profits or sale of assets. esops also are financed mostly with borrowed funds, but equity is divided among all of the company's workers rather than just a few investors
ms. stewart said american standard, which repeatedly rejected black &amp; decker's earlier overtures, had received several offers but she refused to identify the bidders
page said black &amp; decker plans to sell american standard's transportation division
under the kelso offer, american standard's management likely would remain largely intact but the company might be forced to sell its transportation division and new york headquarters to help reduce debt incurred in the buyout
thirteen people were charged friday in a worldwide, $400,000-a-week money-laundering operation run by israelis in the united states on behalf of two men in colombia
the network laundered $25 million since at least late 1986, mainly through nearly 40 banks in the new york metropolitan area, seattle, and los angeles for ultimate deposit in panama, prosecutors said
at least ten suspects were arrested friday in washington, new jersey and california. they included a rabbi and two former flight attendants nearly nine months pregnant
according to documents filed in federal court here, adi tal, a 27-year-old israeli and former el al airlines employee, supervised the u.s. operations, coordinating operations in the three states
he reported the activities to his superiors in cali, colombia, identified as enrique korc and kimaro, last name unknown, according to u.s. attorney samuel a. alito jr. in newark
the defendants were charged with conspiring to violate federal laws requiring that transactions of more than $10,000 be reported. the charge carries a five-year prison term
the defendants allegedly deposited smaller amounts of cash in banks in the united states and transferred the funds in the form of checks, money orders and cashier's checks shipped in parcels for deposit mainly in the banco cafetero in panama city, panama, alito said
authorities refused to say what the source of the money was, or where it went after reaching the panamanian bank. the case was investigated by the internal revenue service, u.s. customs service and drug enforcement administration
attorney clifford n. kuhn jr., representing tal, his 26-year-old wife jacqueline and another married couple at their initial appearance friday, said he could not comment on the case because he had not discussed it with his clients in detail
asked if the cash resulted from drug sales, he commented: ``i think that's what they're alleging, but i'm not quite sure.''
prosecutors also charged that some defendants illegally transported hundreds of thousands of dollars in cash by plane to england and west germany
tal, who authorities said moved to edison this month from woodland hills, calif., allegedly supervised nir goldeshstein, 27, of edison and the two men's wives in operations in the new york area
each family had access to hundreds of thousands of dollars, had ties to israel and had established ``nest eggs'' there in case they had to flee, assistant u.s. attorney stuart rabner said in court arguments
tal and goldeshstein were ordered held without bail until a hearing monday by u.s. magistrate stanley r. chesler
hedges set bail at $50,000 for mrs. tal and goldeshtein's wife, zoe lawton, 23, both pregnant and close to term
arrested in seattle were baruch zeltzer, 32; sergio dias, 26; avi hazan, 24; and rabbi shalom levitan, said u.s. attorney gene s. anderson
charged in california were moshe begim, 25; guy marom, 26, both of west hollywood; and alon redko, 32, from the los angeles area, said alito. all were arrested by friday afternoon except redko, rabner said
tal, goldeshtein, zeltzer, hazan, begim, marom and redko are israeli citizens, rabner said
levitan holds a ``supervisory position'' at chabad house, a community center for the lubavitch hasidic community, anderson said
the suspects referred to quantities of money as diamond karats in intercepted telephone calls, according to a custom service agent's affidavit filed with the court
ms. lawton was a flight attendant for trans world airlines, and mrs. tal was an attendant for northwest airlines, said the 55-page document
both have family members in seattle and mrs. tal grew up in panama, rabner told the judge
tal and goldeshtein were not employed but were planning to open a private mail drop business in edison where customers could ship packages, rent beepers and purchase money orders, among other things, the affidavit said. $6.5 billion</head>
texaco inc. suggested late friday that back taxes owed to the federal government likely would total less than $1 billion, not the $6.5 billion originally suggested two months ago
the oil giant made the suggestion in an announcement that it had reached a framework agreement to review all tax claims with the internal revenue service. the agreement removed one of the last remaining impediments to texaco's efforts to extricate itself from federal bankruptcy protection
the nation's third-largest oil company sought bankruptcy court refuge nearly a year ago because of a protracted court struggle with the much smaller pennzoil co., which held a $10.3 billion damage claim against texaco
pennzoil won the mammoth judgment from a texas jury that decided texaco had wrecked pennzoil's agreement to buy part of getty oil co. in 1984 by acquiring getty itself
last december pennzoil agreed to drop the claim in exchange for $3 billion cash, setting in motion a complex process under which texaco would emerge from bankruptcy as a smaller restructured company
but under the bankruptcy laws, texaco's other creditors had to state their estimated claims against the company before it emerged from bankruptcy. in january the irs, as a priority creditor, indicated texaco might owe $6.5 billion in back taxes based on an audit of the company for 1965 through 1986
if the irs were correct, industry analysts said, the back taxes would likely have crippled the company
the irs claim stemmed from a theory the agency had developed that would have raised the market value of saudi oil handled by texaco during some of the years in question. theoretically, the irs might have demanded texaco pay taxes on what the company would have earned had it sold the oil for a higher price
although analysts were certain the final tax bill would total much less, the agreement announced friday marked the first time a figure in the $1 billion range was suggested
under the agreement, texaco will make cash deposits against tax claims totaling $1 billion over a four-year period, with the first installment of $200 million on the date its bankruptcy reorganization is approved and $200 million thereafter on each of the next four anniversary dates
texaco's announcement implied the final bill might even be less than $1 billion because of a provision that any leftover money will be returned to the company. the company also downplayed the significance of the irs claim compared with the taxes texaco pays during the course of one year
the amount of the deposits provided for in the agreement, which cover outstanding tax claims spanning a period of 13 years, should be viewed in the context of the $3.8 billion in direct taxes the company incurred in 1987 alone on its $35.8 billion in business revenue worldwide,'' texaco said
texaco officials declined to comment further because of what they called an arrangement with the irs not to elaborate on the agreement
ellen murphy, public affairs director for the irs in washington, said the $1 billion figure represented only money to be deposited for claims and ``obviously it's too soon to say what size liability we're talking about.''
nevertheless, accountants familiar with irs policies on large back-tax claimssuggested that if the agency felt texaco might owe more than $1 billion, it would have demanded a bigger deposit
