the socialist party leadership on monday strongly suggested president kurt waldheim should step down but stopped short of calling for his resignation
chancellor franz vranitzky, party chief fred sinowatz and other party leaders also renewed an indirect offer to support a conservative candidate to be nominated for presidential elections if waldheim quits
the resolution adopted by the socialist leadership meeting said the report of a historians' commission on waldheim's service in the german army during world war ii had ``badly shaken the president's moral authority at home and abroad.''
it also said that a televised speech by waldheim on feb. 15 ``has raised doubts about his ability to integrate'' austria's opposing political camps
in that speech, waldheim said he would not step down and dismissed as wrong unspecified parts of the report earlier this month by the international panel of historians that probed his wartime past
waldheim, 69, has consistently denied any wrongdoing as a first lieutenant serving in the german army in the balkans during the war
the resolution said the socialists are ready, together with the conservative people's party, junior partner in the coalition government, to ``look for a way toward a new beginning in the office of federal president.''
asked whether this meant that the socialists would agree to a joint conservative presidential candidate, sinowatz told reporters ``this certainly includes also the question whether a personnel change is possible.''
economics minister robert graf and other leading officials of the conservative people's party last week expressed increasing uneasiness in the party about the damage being done to the country if waldheim clings to his post. waldheim, elected in 1986, ends his term in 1992
the historians' commission presented no evidence that would clearly back allegations waldheim committed atrocities, but it left open the question of whether he was guilty of any crime
it said he was ``in close proximity'' to some nazi atrocities in the balkans, knew they were going on and made no attempt ot prevent them. it also said waldheim concealed his wartime past and tried to make it seem harmless once he could no longer hide it. poll covers southern and border super tuesday states, not all 20</note>
vice president george bush holds a 2-1 lead over chief rival sen. bob dole in the 14 southern and border states that hold primaries on march 8, super tuesday, a poll indicated monday
on the democratic side, jesse jackson and massachusetts gov. michael dukakis were running roughly even in the south, the scripps howard news service survey suggested
dukakis was the nationwide favorite among democrats, according to another poll, this one by cbs news and the new york times. according to that survey, dukakis had 21 percent; jackson 13 percent; rep. richard gephardt had 12 percent and former colorado sen. gary hart 10 percent
jackson and tennessee sen. albert gore jr. were the leaders in the southern and border super tuesday states, garnering 19 percent and 16 percent respectively, the cbs-new york times poll said. dukakis had 13 percent; gephardt 11 percent and hart 10 percent, the cbs-times poll indicated
in the scripps howard survey, bush led dole by a 51-26 margin, with former television evangelist pat robertson was third with 11 percent. rep. jack kemp of new york trailed with 3 percent and 9 percent were undecided, the poll indicated
in the cbs-new york times poll of super tuesday states plus south carolina, findings were similar: 51 percent for bush to 20 percent for dole. in the nationwide sampling the survey found 42 percent opting for bush and 27 percent for dole
the scripps howard pollsters contacted 423 likely republican voters feb. 17-19, just after new hampshire's feb. 16 primary. the margin of error on the gop side was 5 percentage points, the news service said
bush won the new hampshire primary, eight days after a bruising third-place finish in the iowa caucuses behind dole and robertson
among democrats, the scripps howard survey gave jackson 22 percent and dukakis 19 percent _ within the poll's 4 percentage-point margin of error. dukakis was the decisive winner of the new hampshire primary
gore, who has pinned his hopes on a strong showing in the south, and gephardt, the missouri congressman who won the iowa caucuses and placed second in new hampshire, each had 14 percent, and 21 percent were undecided, the news service said
hart had 6 percent, the scripps howard poll indicated, and sen. paul simon of illinois drew the backing of 5 percent. on the democratic side, 597 voters were surveyed during the same time period as the republican polling
the scripps howard survey involved voters in alabama, arkansas, florida, georgia, kentucky, louisiana, maryland, mississippi, missouri, north carolina, oklahoma, tennessee, texas and virginia, all of which hold primaries or caucuses on march 8. six other states hold primaries or caucuses that day as well
the scripps howard survey was done in conjunction with the birmingham (ala.) post-herald, the commercial appeal of memphia and the knoxville (tenn.) news sentinel
the telephone poll of 2,734 adults nationwide for cbs and the times was taken feb. 17-21 has a margin of error of plus or minus three percentage points on the democratic side and four points for the gop race
the cbs-times super tuesday figures have a margin of error of four percentage points for the democrats and five points for the republicans
eight million americans can be wrong
that's how many people bought bon jovi's album ``slippery when wet,'' which spent 38 weeks in the top 5 of the album charts and churned out three hit singles
but the boys from new jersey received a goose egg from the national academy of recording arts and sciences, which deemed ``slippery when wet'' worthy of zero grammy nominations. and it's not just the platinum-haired, platinum-sellers the academy ignores: critical favorites can and often do suffer the same fate
the beatles, one of the most popular and prolific musical entities of the century, were often ignored by the academy, winning only four grammys as a group. the rolling stones have never won a grammy
rem, the acclaimed band from athens, ga., broke nationally with their ``document'' album and its single, ``the one i love''; their album also received no nominations. however, the lp cover was nominated for best album package
an assortment of artists, from john cougar mellencamp to the beastie boys, missed out on musical nominations for the march 2 show at radio city music hall, passed over by a membership which ``once more opted for studio craft over originality and vision,'' wrote los angeles times music critic robert hilburn
you know what it is? it's just the way it is. you can't fight city hall,'' said rocker richard marx, who was snubbed for a best new artist nomination on a technicality
it does tend to be the same kind of people every year,'' he said. ``a lot of times it's the people who've been on the cover of time, or the real mainstream people. the artistic people are passed over many times.''
for marx, it was an obscure track he recorded for a b-movie soundtrack that prevented his new artist nomination. a similar controversy arose in 1986 when the academy refused to nominate whitney houston in the best new artist category because she had recorded duets with jermaine jackson and teddy pendergrass. she went on to win the best female pop vocal grammy for ``saving all my love for you.''
but crosby, stills &amp; nash, who won the award in 1969, had been vocalists and songwriters in the byrds, buffalo springfield and the hollies. cyndi lauper, who won in 1985, recorded as lead vocalist with a group called blue angel before her ``she's so unusual'' lp. and freddie jackson, who was nominated in that category in 1986, had been a part of a recording group called mystic merlin
nevertheless, singer jody watley _ who scored several hits while recording with the band shalimar _ was nominated as a new artist this year
i was upset for about five minutes when i found out. then i thought, `well, no big deal. i'll get nominated for a grammy someday,''' said marx, who wound up nominated this year for best rock vocal with his track, ``don't mean nothing.''
his competition in that category includes joe cocker, tina turner, bob seger and superstar bruce springsteen. but even the boss was a victim of the fickle grammy selection process
springsteen's ``tunnel of love,'' his first studio album in three years, was passed over for album for the year honors. but ``paradise by the c,'' an old tune recycled on springsteen's five-record live set, inexplicably received a best rock instrumental nomination
in fact, springsteen has received only one grammy award, despite such multimillion selling and critically hailed albums as ``born to run,'' ``the river'' and ``born in the usa.''
as for mellencamp, his fine ``the lonesome jubilee'' received no nominations; mellencamp received a co-nomination for producer of the year with his studio partner, don gehman
springsteen's office has declined to comment on the nomination process, which is handled by the 5,000-member naras. the selection of nominees and the winners annually produces complaints from those passed over, although many artists remain philosophical about the whole process
look at all the people who won in the best new artist category in the past _ the starland vocal band, a taste of honey,'' said marx. ``that award can be the kiss of death.''
harold thomas works in a junkyard six days a week, tearing apart old cars and rebuilding the engines. the other day is spent working in the fields at a church-run orphanage, where his benefactors have volunteered his service
roy gilman, 75, and his wife, ethel, 68, gave him the job and a chance to leave the lean-to he was living in last month with other homeless men in chicago
they gave him the old 8-foot-by-30-foot trailer home at the junkyard that he shares with a stray cat he's named cleo
they have their son ralph drive him to church on sundays
they pay for his groceries, but they haven't paid him any wages yet
those gilmans believe in working,'' thomas says, adding that a paycheck will probably come when business picks up
a month from now, it'll be planting season,'' he says. ``i think i'll do good. i'm fed, i'm healthy, i'm working.''
room and board are thomas's pay for now, ralph gilman says. thomas will be paid ``when he gets where he can do anything. ... i think we're going in the hole part of the time now.''
thomas is a stranger in a strange land, and the circumstances that brought him here on jan. 16 were just as strange
before he arrived in this ranching and farming community of about 11,000 people on the flat high plains of eastern new mexico, thomas lived in a rotting wood and canvas shack along the chicago river. he didn't have a job and he got his meals when he could. a 2-inch scar across his forehead is testimony to a fight he says started in a soup line in chicago
the gilmans read of thomas' plight in an associated press story published in the portales news-tribune in january, contacted the ap bureau in chicago and said if thomas was willing to work they'd provide him with a home and a job
by the time thomas, 35, was on a westbound greyhound people had donated new clothes, new luggage and spending money
thomas isn't completely at ease in his new surroundings
he isn't quite sure how people will react to him
he shunned a suggestion of one restaurant for dinner, saying he'd heard ``rough cowboys'' hung out there
thomas likes to talk about his past. he speaks with animation of his days as a wanderer, traveling through the south looking for work
he speaks also of a future when he will own his own ranch
but for now, he goes to work at the junkyard each day and says he enjoys the time he spends in the fields at the orphanage
when the director of the orphanage drives up to the remains of an old corral that thomas is sawing into firewood, thomas quickly extinguishes his cigarette in his calloused hand, saying putting it out is the respectful thing to do
new mexico is nice and warm,'' he says. ``i want to stay here and try to make something out of this opportunity
i ain't getting no younger. i want to settle down.''
since his arrival, thomas has received dozens of letters: from women who've read of his good fortune and want to share life with him, from homeless people wishing him well in his new life, from 28 fifth graders in corrales, n.m
the gilmans also get letters _ mostly commending them for offering thomas the opportunity to work again and to have a roof over his head
thomas, a burly 5-foot-10-inch former carpenter, answers his letters, particularly those from the women. ``i get lonely for a woman,'' he says
mrs. gilman saves her letters in a notebook that she likes to show visitors
people in the community have been receptive to thomas, she says, but adds: ``so many people want his place if he doesn't work out. if he doesn't get started drinking, he'll be all right.''
thomas isn't drinking. he can't go out to bars at night because the 16-year-old car the gilmans gave him doesn't have an engine yet. but he's learning the skills he'll need to get it in working order
ralph gilman says thomas is a good worker but still needs time to adjust to his new job
some things could be better,'' he says. ``i think there's a communication gap, but a bunch of that is probably my fault. he can't read my mind
a lot of it is the way he's lived,'' gilman says. ``his brain has worked on survival for the last couple of years. he's got to develop it for this now.''
thomas begins each day at 8 a.m. by helping feed the half dozen cows that also live at the junkyard
when warm weather comes he'll help with ranching chores on the approximately 2,000 acres the gilmans own in several tracts
he's not completely satisfied. i can tell,'' ralph gilman says. ``other days things are good. there's ups and downs.''
thomas says the downs come mostly when he begins missing his longtime girlfriend and her 16-year-old daughter he helped raise. they live in a government housing project in chicago
i want to help my stepdaughter out, she's pregnant,'' he says. ``i'd like to try and save my money and do something for my own. i'd like to bring them down here
i never knew i'd end up like i did,'' he says. ``i hope i don't end up in a slump like that again. that ain't no kind of life for a man.''
british actor dudley moore, who staggered to fame as a lovable lush in the movie ``arthur,'' has married aspiring actress brogan lane, a week after his valentine's day proposal, his agent said
moore, 52, and miss lane, 28, were married sunday by a justice of the peace at the little church of the west chapel, said agent lou pitt
moore met miss lane six years ago on the set of the film ``six weeks,'' according to publicist paul bloch. they were re-introduced three years ago at a restaurant and have been together since
moore's marriages to actresses suzy kendall and tuesday weld ended in divorce. it was miss lane's second marriage. each has a son
the two hope to star in a film together in the future and are looking for projects,'' said bloch
pianist van cliburn says he stopped playing in public in 1978 because he needed a short rest
cliburn broke his long silence with a white house performance during december's summit meeting between president reagan and soviet leader mikhail gorbachev
to be honest, i never thought the `intermission' would go on for 10 years,'' cliburn said in an interview published in sunday's dallas morning news. ``i guess it went on so long because i felt relaxed and was having such a good time simply living.''
since the white house performance, he has had numerous offers but has so far accepted only one _ conductor zubin mehta's invitation to accompany the new york philharmonic on its first tour of the soviet union in 15 years
cliburn will appear as soloist with the orchestra in concerts in leningrad and moscow during may and june, 30 years after he won the tchaikovsky international competition
he said he would perform in his home state of texas next season
deaf actress marlee matlin is working with a speech pathologist to improve her speaking skills, according to people magazine
miss matlin, who won an oscar for best actress for her portrayal of a deaf-mute in ``children of a lesser god,'' will be presenting this year's best actor award. she plans to say, ``the envelope, please,'' rather than use sign language, the magazine says in this week's edition
she also has a speaking role in the planned cbs movie with anne bancroft, ``the bridge to silence.''
she needed a lot of work,'' said her speech pathologist, dr. lillian glass. ``her voice was flat, monotone, and she talked too fast.''
filmmaker john waters says there are similarities between his first pg-rated movie and his 1972 midnight classic ``pink flamingos,'' which is still outraging audiences
hairspray,'' a comedy about an overweight girl who becomes a star on a local television dance show, makes its debut this week. divine, the 300-pound transvestite star of ``pink flamingos'' plays the mother of the heroine of ``hairspray.''
i knew this was one of the few obsessions i ever had that would be palatable to (general) movie executives,'' the 41-year-old waters said of ``hairspray'' in an interview published sunday in the new york times
the sensibility and sense of humor in `hairspray' is the same of `pink flamingos.' the difference is that i don't have the rage at 41. i'd be a jerk.''
in her ``saturday night live'' heyday, gilda radner poked fun at people and just about everything else, but when she learned 17 months ago that she had cancer she found life was not as funny
cancer is about the most unfunny thing in the world,'' radner said in an interview in march's life magazine. ``but it doesn't have to mean you die.''
although radner had lost much weight and hair during her chemotherapy, she has a new attitude today
radner needs little provocation to yank up her sweater and show off her newly `fat' stomach, and after eight months of baldness, her unruly brown hair (with a bit of gray at the temples) has grown back in a thick thatch,'' according to the magazine
she has also stopped smoking and eats more wholesome food
twenty years ago, the average life expectancy of a patient with ovarian cancer was between six and seven months. it is still the most lethal of pelvic cancers, with less than a 30 percent recovery rate
although radner, 41, will not be considered well unless her remission continues for at least 1{ years, she said ``i think i've never been as healthy and as well as i am now.''
she credits her turnaround to her excruciating medical treatment, which included surgery, nine months of chemotherapy injections and 30 radiation sessions
her 52-year-old husband, actor gene wilder, said: ``each time gilda had to go through one more treatment, and she'd be vomiting and writhing in pain, i'd ask myself, `how much can a human being take?'''
had wilder not been around, radner is certain she could not have taken so much, the magazine said. wilder has not worked since she was diagnosed
radner also credits meetings she's attending with the ``wellness community,'' a cancer self-help group
and she's working three hours a day on a book about cancer
that's what one of my favorite visualizations is about,'' she said. ``every day ... i imagine myself sitting in doubleday's, with people lined up to have me sign my book. i'm well. and i'm adorable.''
jimmy swaggart didn't spare the fire-and-brimstone when fellow tv evangelists jim bakker and marvin gorman fell from power last year. he criticized them for their style as well as their sexual dalliances
god deliver us from these pompadour boys, hair done, nails done, fresh from the beauty shop, preaching the gospel,'' he thundered in march at a california crusade
swaggart, who temporarily stepped down from his own ministry sunday amid allegations of sexual misconduct, has a less polished, more explosive fundamentalist style. it sprang, perhaps, from his upbringing in ferriday, a backwater town in northern louisiana's bible belt
it was there, he has said, when he first heard the call of god _ a voice that gave him goose bumps and made his hair tingle
he was 8 years old
everything seemed different after that day in front of the arcade theater,'' he said in a 1985 interview. ``i felt better inside. almost like taking a bath.''
he grew up poor and learned to play the piano and sing along with two cousins who took different paths _ rock singer jerry lee lewis and country singer mickey gilley
part-time preaching and part-time work in oil fields provided his living until he was 23, when he gave up the oil work. he preached, played piano and sang gospel songs with all the barrelhouse fervor of his cousin jerry lee at assemblies of god revivals and camp meetings for 16 years before starting a radio show that launched his broadcast evangelism career
he was always outspoken
in literature issued by his ministry he calls roman catholicism ``a false religion. it is not the christian way. whosoever follows its errant doctrines will be deceived and end up eternally lost.''
of jews, he wrote that ``because of their rejection of christ ... they have known sorrow and heartache like have no other people on the face of the earth.''
if you don't like what i say, talk to my boss!'' he shouted once as he strode in front of his congregation at his family worship center, where his sermons often move listeners to stand up as though possessed by the holy spirit and start speaking in tongues
offensive to some, swaggart's messages still moved many. contributors built jimmy swaggart ministries into a growth industry that made an estimated $142 million in 1986. swaggart said in 1985 that his complex in baton rouge _ including a worship center, bible college and state-of-the-art broadcasting and recording facilities _ was worth up to $75 million
swaggart has said the ptl scandals of last year hurt fund-raising because the public painted all evangelists with a broad brush
as the scandal broke, swaggart assured his followers that he wouldn't fall into the same trap as bakker and gorman, a new orleans minister
in his baton rouge worship center in march he told his flock that if he were ever unfaithful to his wife, frances, she would ``kill me before god could even get to me.''
on sunday, swaggart never specifially responded to reports that he, too, had been accused of sexual misconduct, specifically consorting with a prostitute. but, as his tearful followers looked on, he turned to his wife and said, ``god never gave a man a better helpmate, a companion to stand beside him. i have sinned against you and i beg your forgiveness.''
some facts and figures on the assemblies of god church:
_ founded in 1914 during a convention in hot springs, ark., the assemblies of god moved its headquarters to springfield, mo., from st. louis in 1918. it employs more than 1,300 people in springfield: at the headquarters, its seminary, three colleges and a retirement center
_ the assemblies of god is pentecostal, a branch of christianity emphasizing personal experience of god, manifested in ``gifts of the spirit'' such as speaking in tongues and healing
_ it is the largest pentecostal demonination if the united states, claiming nearly 2.5 million adherents, plus 14 million overseas _ 9 million of them in brazil
_ there are nearly 11,000 assemblies of god churches in the united states and more than 30,000 ministers _ about 3,700 of them women, according to a 1987 survey
_ the church is composed of 57 districts, primarily broken down by geographic boundaries
_ ordained ministers and church delegates form the general council, a body which meets biennially to conduct church business, formulate procedures and policies, and elect top executive officers to the 13-member executive presbytery. the general superintendent, who is the top executive officer, is elected to a four-year term; all others are elected to two-year terms
_ ministers can be disciplined not only for moral indescretion but also for straying from church doctrines, inefficency, being contentious or non-cooperative, or trying to assume dictatorial power over a congregation
editor's note _ this is one of a series of occasional reports by associated press correspondents on life and customs in the byways of the world.</head>
this town of cobblestone streets and sparkling white houses is a long way from anywhere in india, but millions cross a desert every year to get to it and wash away their sins in its holy lake
pushkar is a place revered by hindus and even by some foreigners who seek out its tranquility
its beginnings lie with lord brahma, the creator of the universe in hindu mythology. hindu texts have it that when brahma was seeking a place for a holy ceremony, he chose pushkar
he dropped a lotus from his hand and water spouted from the desert to form a lake, according to the texts that date from the 8th century b.c
in these modern times, as the sun rises, hindu pilgrims chant mantras and take a dip in pushkar lake, believing all their sins will be washed away by the holy waters
europeans and americans often are seen by the lake, sharing the religious experience. they feed grain to pigeons and sweets to long-tailed monkeys who scramble across the pinnacles of the town's 400 temples where ascetics, hindu monks and other holy men gather
pushkar, a town of 9,000 people, is an oasis of tranquility, far removed from the bustling cities and teeming slums of bombay, new delhi and calcutta
the blazing sun soaks into everything
it was the sacred month of kartik, signifying the onset of winter, when lord brahma is said to have dropped his lotus blossom
brahma, foremost in the hindu trinity of supreme gods, had been looking for a suitable site to perform a major religious ceremony
but his wife, savitri, could not attend the ritual. angered, she decreed that henceforth brahma would be worshiped at only one place
pushkar became the sole earthly home of the peaceful god of creation, while millions of shrines were erected across india to lord shiva the destroyer and to ferocious goddesses like kali and durga who are often depicted as fire-spitting images carrying heads of evil men they had slain in battle
but this oasis in the desert emerged as a major holy town for the hindus, almost equal in importance to benaras, the ``eternal city.'' hindus believe that one goes to heaven if one dies in benaras
pilgrims come by the thousands to pushkar, 250 miles southwest of new delhi, to bathe in the lake and revive the memory of brahma's majestic rite every year on kartik poornima, the full moon night in the month of november
shielded by nag pahar, or serpent mountain, pushkar has india's _ and perhaps the world's _ only temple to brahma
the town centers on the lake, where there are several steps for bathing. signs warn foreigners ``not to wear shorts and other revealing clothes, not to smoke, drink near the lake or take photographs, not to kiss, embrace or indulge in other irreverent acts.''
the steps, called ghats, are controlled by vigilant and aggressive brahmin priests, who preside over religious ceremonies, armed with horoscopes. they watch every pilgrim approaching the lake and pounce on potential clients
each visit is recorded in their bulky, cloth-covered books. a priest can easily tell a devotee when his grandfather visited pushkar by referring to the dog-eared notebooks
displeasing a priest can be unpleasant. he will pronounce curses on one's entire family, naming all _ the grandfather, father and sons
from the lake, the steps lead up to the main street, a favorite shopping center with the tourists. the shops are stacked with exotic handicrafts, peasant skirts and other clothes native to this part of india. velvet shirts and pajamas, musts for low-budget travelers, hang in vibrant displays
george vassiliou, elected as cyprus' fourth president since independence from britain 28 years ago, had never belonged to a political party or been involved in political activity until he decided to run for office
the 56-year-old millionaire businessmen ran as an independent backed by the moscow-oriented communist party, akel, which controls about one-third of the votes among the 363,000 voters on the greek cypriot side of the divided mediterranean island
on sunday, he defeated a veteran conservative politician to become the nation's leader
until his campaign, vassiliou concentrated on his research and marketing company, worth about $5 million. it is the largest in the middle east
the campaign was a first for the communists as well. until this poll, the party had always supported centrist candidates, never fielding its own man
but the millionaire's endorsement by the communists was not as contradictory as it sounds. his parents, vassos, an eye doctor, and phofo, a dentist, were founding members of the party in 1941
his father took the family to greece in 1945 to fight on the communist side in the civil war
the pro-european vassiliou has stressed his political independence from the communists, particularly on foreign policy, and is expected to adhere to cyprus' non-aligned status
the election of the urbane vassiliou, an economist who speaks seven languages, breaks the greek cypriot nationalists' grip on power since independence
the island's first president, archbishop makarios, hero of the independence struggle in the 1950s, was elected for three five-year terms with huge majorities
his successor, spyros kyprianou, was considered his political heir and served for two terms _ but only with akel support, which was withdrawn in 1985
vassiliou's election breaks the mold. he has said his first priority is to break the deadlock between greek and turkish cypriots and seek to reunite the island
it has been divided since the turkish army invaded in 1974, after a short-lived coup by militant supporters of union with greece that installed nicos sampson as president for eight days
all efforts to find a political settlement have foundered. but vassiliou has said he will form a national unity government and is willing to reopen negotiations without preconditions
vassilou, who was born in famagusta, now part of the breakaway turkish cypriot republic in the northern third of the island, was educated in london and budapest, hungary. he is married with three children
pop artist andy warhol, who gained fame by calling fame fleeting, has proved otherwise by his death
a year after his fatal heart attack in a new york hospital, warhol's legacy is a mirror of his life: a melange of high art, low kitsch, dramatic tension and, as much as ever, the gaze of a fascinated public
it's going to take a while still for his legacy to be sorted out,'' said david bourdon, an art critic and warhol biographer. ``but if anybody thought he was going to be a flash in the pan, they are quite mistaken.''
artistically, scrutiny of warhol's work has risen to a level it probably never attained in his life. major film and painting retrospectives are in the works, as are several biographies and the publication of his private journal
socially, the cultish lifestyle in which warhol enveloped himself will be unwrapped this spring at a huge auction of the artist's possessions, from old master paintings to a superman touch-tone phone
commercially, the managers of warhol's estate have signed a licensing agreement that principals say could create a billion-dollar business in retail goods, from calendars to towels, bearing warhol images
and legally, in its least expected ramification, warhol's death continues to reverberate in the medical world. the state has accused new york hospital of rendering him deficient care, and his estate has sued over his death
what would he think of all this? as far as the brouhaha is concerned, it's consistent with the way he lived _ action, tension, all those kinds of things,'' said edward hayes, lawyer for the estate. ``but in terms of his death? he'd probably just think his death was stupid.''
warhol, 58, died in his hospital bed early feb. 22, 1987, the day after a surgeon removed his gall bladder. pathologically fearful of hospitals and distrustful of doctors, he had put off the surgery for years
his death remains an enigma. the city coroner was unable to say what caused warhol's heart to stop, and the state health department, while citing deficient care, did not say the problems _ such as inadequate supervision of nurses and incomplete record-keeping _ harmed him
there are cases when cardiac arrest is unexplained. this will probably be one of those cases,'' said diana goldin, spokeswoman for the hospital, which maintains that warhol was well cared for
in some ways, the inconclusiveness of warhol's death is fitting. his life was equally enigmatic, a mix of nightclubbing and reticence, public persona and intense privacy, counterculture innovation and determined marketing
the everyday object was his icon, the provocative phrase his byword. ``in the future,'' said warhol's famous assertion in a 1968 exhibition catalog, ``everyone will be world-famous for 15 minutes.''
he was an incredible character,'' said bourdon. ``there are just so many conflicting stories and irreconcilable anecdotes; i don't think it can ever be sorted out. i think he's just going to evaporate into legend. he wanted it that way. facts were always a little unglamorous to him.''
but in the absence of warhol's own brand of glamor _ his ethereal, black-draped, white-wigged presence _ what remains is the reality of his art
you take a look at the work and the personality becomes less of an issue,'' said barbara haskell, curator of the whitney museum of american art. ``the social presence that he projected is no longer part of the evaluation, and one can look at the work more clearly.''
that appraisal is going on intensively, as often happens after the death of an artist. the whitney plans a spring retrospective of warhol films. the museum of modern art is preparing for a major show of warhol art next year; it will tour worldwide. at least four books on his life are due out soon
he tried to cultivate a two-dimensional persona. now, when one begins to see the depth of who he was, it becomes more intriguing,'' said haskell. ``he is far more significant than he allowed his public to believe.''
there are some signs already of the increased value of warhol's work. at auction in october, a warhol painting that was expected to sell for $70,000 went for $220,000; another with an estimate of $50,000 sold for $176,000
those sums pale in comparison to the potential value of an agreement between warhol's estate and schlaifer nance &amp; co., the marketing firm behind the cabbage patch kids dolls. warhol, who often blurred the line between fine and commercial art, had started the discussions with schlaifer two years ago
the company may put his name and images on bedding, cosmetics, paper goods, jewelry _ a huge range of retail items whose sales it has said could reach the billion-dollar level. warhol may have approved; ``being good in business,'' he wrote in 1975, ``is the most fascinating kind of art.''
but for all the marketing schemes and planned art shows, warhol's legacy may make its brashest statement in april and may, when sotheby's auction house sells the entire, eclectic assortment of artworks and knickknacks that cluttered his manhattan townhouse. proceeds will fund a foundation for the visual arts
the sale is classic warhol: the six-volume catalog, selling for $95, is sotheby's costliest ever, and the first to be sold in advance in bookstores nationwide. the pieces include 134 pottery cookie jars, a rolls royce, a few important modern art works. sotheby's forecasts a $10 million to $15 million sale; other estimates are more than twice that. the crowd of bidders is sure to glitter
the artist, his friends say, would have loved the fuss _ but in his own, unrevealing way
there's been a much heightened interest, naturally,'' said fred hughes, his longtime manager and now executor of his estate. ``warhol was a hard guy to figure out his reaction. but i think he would have taken it in his stride.'' bodies recovered at collapsed nursing home. subs 2 grafs for grafs 7-8 pvs: `civil defense ...' with details</note>
rescue workers recovered eight victims and rescued 13 people late sunday beneath a massive mudslide in rio de janeiro, which has been hit by three days of pounding rains
at least 74 people died and 11,000 were left homeless by the violent storms since friday, which turned streets into raging torrents, threw cars like toys and carried ramshackle homes roaring down hillsides, civil defense officials said early monday
authorities estimated 50,000 people eventually may have to be relocated. throughout the city, army trucks and volunteers helped transport slum dwellers from precarious hillside homes to temporary shelters in schools, churches and public buildings
in some cases, people refused to leave their partially destroyed homes, preferring to ris being crushed beneath their homes than leave their worldly possession
health officials promised mass vaccinations against tetanus and typhoid and warned residents against an outbreak of leprosy, which followed a similar spate of rainstorms earlier this month
from above, one has the impression a giant stepped through the city, smashing homes and hillsides,'' said mayor saturnino braga, who called the three-day onslaught the city's worst disaster
civil defense officials estimated saturday that as many as 150 people were killed in the rains that began late friday, but the figure on sunday lowered to 48 and later raised back to 74
twenty more people were believed missing beneath mud and debris, including at least eight more people at the santa genoveva hospital. rescuers recovered the eight bodies and 13 people alive from the nursing home in the upscale hillside neighborhood of santa teresa, where a three-story wing of the hospital was crushed by a mudslide saturday
it's hard to have an accurate view of the number of dead,'' said civil defense spokesman bruno avila. ``we have no idea how many people have been burried by their shanty town homes nor do we know exactly how many were in the santa genoveva hospital at the time it was stuck, though we imagine some 30 of the 350 patients died.''
torrents raged down streets throughout the city, prompting some people to tie their cars to posts to prevent them from being swept away. civil defense workers used amphibious vehicle and surfboards to pluck people from partially submerged cars
rivers and drainage canals overflowed, pushing dozens of shanty homes from their precarious hillside perches
much of the damage was inflicted on the slums that hold about 2 million of the city's 7 million residents, but wealthy areas also suffered heavy damage
in the santa teresa district, an eight-floor apartment building was evacuated and threatened to topple, engineers said. evacuations were ordered after flooding hit the wealthy gavea, lagoa and jardim botanico districts
vice mayor jo rezende said he has asked the federal government for $4 million to clean up city streets, relocate slum dwellers and repair embankments and streets washed away by the waters
i can't even imagine what will happen to this city if the rains continue,'' rezende told the jornal do brasil radio. ``the situation is desperate. we estimate 50,000 people will have to be given new housing in safer areas.''
public schools were used as shelter for the estimated 10,000 homeless, avila said. supermarkets were asked to donate food and doctors were asked to report for duty
globo, the country's biggest private television network, carried news flashes every 15 minutes to solicit donations of time, food and medication
meteorologists said the downpour was caused by an antarctic cold front that likely was to continue through monday
health secretary jose noronha told rio residents to boil their drinking water and said the government would carry out vaccinations against typhoid and tetanus. he said 69 people had been hospitalized since the beginning of the month with leprosy, a disease carried by rats and contaminated water
five have died of the disease, noronha said on jornal do brasil radio
earlier this month, 207 people died in flooding and mudslides around the state and 13,000 were left homless. the worst-hit area was petropolis, a mountain resort town 40 miles north of rio
an australian navy ship rescued 12 crewmen from a south korean trawler that sank off new zealand, but gave up the search today for three missing crew members
the trawler, the dong chang no. 3, sank sunday about 60 miles north of wellington near the western entrance of cook strait
the jarvis, a royal australian navy training and support ship, rescued the 12 crewmen from a life raft, then searched for 17 hours in heavy seas for three crewmen who disappeared without life jackets
maj. peter fry, spokesman for new zealand's defense department, said the missing crewmen's chances for survival ``were assessed as nil after 17 hours in the water.'' there was no immediate word on what caused the trawler to sink. official, saying debris shows that plane hit water first, and that officials believe first officer, not the plane's captain, may have been flying the plane. picks up 4th graf pvs, `about 25...'.</note>
investigators in motorboats raked the bottom of a shallow pond at raleigh-durham airport on sunday, pulling up debris that may be a clue to a commuter plane crash that killed 12 people
no one survived friday night's crash of american eagle flight 3378, which went down shortly after takeoff en route to richmond, va
because of debris found in the water, investigators believe the twin-engine turboprop hit the pond before plunging into a wooded area and exploding, officials said sunday evening. earlier, they had said the plane had barely skimmed the pond, a flood reservoir, before crashing
parts of the plane, including a portion of the hydraulic system, were found within 40 feet of the bank, said national transportation safety board member james l. kolstad
he also said that investigators believe the 28-year-old first officer, kathy digan, was flying the plane when it crashed friday, because the captain, walter cole, was talking to the control tower when the plane took off
the person that does the flying doesn't usually do the radio,'' kolstad said
ms. digan, who was hired by american eagle last may, had 2,150 total flying hours and 450 in the metro-iii, the craft type involved in the crash
she was qualified,'' kolstad said. ``there is no doubt about that.''
weather at the time of the accident, although poor, was not so severe as to endanger the flight. visibility on the runway was between 2,400 and 3,000 feet when the crash occurred. the flight could have taken off down to 1,600 feet, kolstad said
earlier, ntsb spokesman ted lopatkiewicz, said officials hoped that the search of the reservoir would show ``how (the plane) broke up. it helps determine the sequence of events.''
about 25 investigators, including some from the ntsb, sifted through the roped-off wreckage site on the pond's bank, peering at small bits of debris and examining larger plane parts for signs of malfunction
beyond them, men in lifejackets piloted two motorboats around the surface of the pond, using poles and hooks to retrieve small pieces of crash debris. the pond measured about 4 feet deep and 75 yards wide, officials said
the debris will be used to determine the state and angle of the plane when it struck the bank, since the aircraft carried no flight data or cockpit voice recorders, lopatkiewicz said. neither is currently required by the federal aviation administration on commuter aircraft, although they will be as of march 1989, he said
if it was flying upside-down, that tells you something,'' he said
some trees were broken and others were skinned as much as 200 yards beyond the water when the aircraft hit the wooded bank. the wreckage, including the entire silver tail, was strewn over an area measuring about 50 feet by 150 feet, lopatkiewicz said
rubble and bits of shiny metal still littered the tall grass. the largest plane piece, a red-, white- and blue-striped shard from the fuselage measuring about 15 feet, lay amid several broken pine tree trunks. wheels from the landing gear had broken off their axle, while about 30 yards away, a piece of the aircraft's emergency door lay twisted in the mud
the remains of the 10 passengers and two crew members were removed saturday night from the crash site and taken to the north carolina medical examiner's laboratory in chapel hill, said teresa damiano, an airport spokeswoman
officials were using fingerprints to help identify the victims, she said
a japanese cargo ship capsized today after colliding with a soviet freighter in osaka bay. all five crewmen on the cargo ship were rescued and no one aboard the soviet vessel was injured, a maritime official said
two tug boats sent from osaka rescued the five crew members from the 499-ton ryusei-maru after it collided with the 10,152-ton alisher-navoi, said mariko sugai, spokeswoman of the local maritime safety agency
there were no reports of injuries among the 32 crew members aboard the alisher-navoi, she said
two japanese crewmen, including skipper takemitsu masu, were taken to a hospital in osaka for treatment of unspecified injuries
at the time of the accident, the soviet vessel was making a turn in order to leave for australia after unloading pig iron at an osaka pier, while the ryusei-maru, carrying a load of limestone, was heading toward the pier
for more than 20 years, the lights of this western maryland community have shimmered with national pride
as the lights of lavale flicker at dusk, a near-perfect outline of the united states begins to shine brightly from this residential community nestled in the foothills of the alleghenies
it's an unusual happenstance. no one tried to make it,'' said carson dowell, who has lived for 25 years atop haystack mountain where the map is best viewed on a cold, clear winter night. ``i'm not sure who discovered it. my wife mentioned it to me. she couldn't believe it.''
a shopping center forms the u.s.-canadian border. a well-lighted thoroughfare around lavale is the west coast. the east coast is about a mile of motels, fast food restaurants and stores along u.s. 40
it's beginning to get a litle busy and distorted because of all the development in the lavale area,'' said cindy snyder, who also lives in the 124-home sunset view development on the mountain. ``as you come down the east coast, florida is starting to get a little out of proportion.''
back five, 10 years ago, it was probably a little better,'' she said. ``we're not knocking the development, but we're losing our united states.''
maine is formed where u.s. 48 disappears behind a mountain ridge. the southern edge of lake ontario is a bowling alley. a disfigured florida appears where u.s. 40 vanishes around haystack mountain. and the gulf coast is a grouping of homes and other establishments
it's the united states of america from sunset view,'' said david dorsey, a planner with the allegany county planning and zoning commission. ``i guess just about everyone has heard of it. i don't know if everyone believes it.''
the residential community of more than 7,200 has experienced a rush of commercial and residential development, especially since the 1960s, dorsey said
we were worried about the mall when it opened up (in 1981), but it's actually a big hawaii,'' said gary ruddell, a businessman who lives in the area. ``there's no alaska. we have to do some more development.''
ruddell, past chairman of the sunset view civic association, said the map is best seen in the winter when leaves have fallen from trees on haystack mountain. about nine months ago, members of the association thought about topping some trees to provide a better view, but scrapped the idea in favor of more pressing needs, he said
some residents expressed concern that publicity would attract sightseers to sunset view and create traffic, but others said most local residents either have already seen it, or have no interest in getting a glimpse of america in lights
sometimes at night people stop out in front and you wonder what they're doing,'' dowell said. ``but then you know what they're doing. they're looking at the map.''
i remember one time _ it's been years ago _ one of my neighbors called and said, `there's someone down in your garden with a tripod surveying,''' dowell said. ``they weren't surveying. they were down there taking pictures of the map.''
after 30 years of handling people in crisis, the suicide prevention center has a crisis of its own. half the telephone hotline workers have walked out in a dispute over layoffs and control of the center
the workers went out on jan. 1 and it has been a sometimes noisy dispute, with striking counselors picketing the center's offices and chanting ``down with the board'' during a recent closed-door meeting of directors
despite the walkout, the crisis line handled more calls in january than it did the same month a year earlier, executive director sheila halfon said
in fact, the strike has prompted people to come forward to ask if the center needed their help
we were deluged with calls from people who read about it and (asked) how could they volunteer,'' halfon said
in addition to the crisis line, the center operates a substance abuse clinic, a halfway house, an aids research project, an art therapy program and an annual curriculum for schools on substance abuse and suicide
before the layoffs, the center _ excluding crisis line workers _ had about 90 full- and part-time employees. the crisis line was staffed by about 80 volunteers and consultants. the latter are workers who started out as volunteers but have begun to receive part-time, $6-an-hour shifts
the crisis line workers walked out when 27 of the non-crisis line staffers were laid off and the hours of 15 others were cut back late last year
the layoff was strictly a ``budgetary concern,'' halfon asserted, though she admitted, ``the timing was terrible, you know, december.''
the center's budget in 1985-86 was about $3 million, including revenue from contracts, grants, clinic fees and donations, she said
but in the last year, some grants have ended and contracts that provided government funding have not been renewed, she said, estimating the current budget at about $1.5 million
we are concerned with fulfilling that,'' she said. ``the cutbacks in just the layoffs will result in a savings of half a million dollars.''
the strikers, however, are particularly upset that among those laid off was the center's first employee, social worker sam heilig, who served as a clinical consultant
we can't function without a clinical person in control,'' phyllis meisler, a spokeswoman for the strikers, said recently
the dismissal of one of the most well known and most experienced persons in the area of suicide prevention doesn't make much sense,'' said norman l. farberow, a psychologist who co-founded the center in 1958
heilig did not return a telephone call for comment
in 1984, farberow and the other founder, dr. robert e. litman, turned the center over to a board of directors composed of local business people so that they could focus on research
but the founders, who have remained as clinicians, want to regain control of the center
the board of directors met feb. 7 to deal with the center's problems
halfon said the directors favored putting a member of the crisis line staff on the board, but she would not reveal what moves the board would take to resolve the overall problem of ``ultimate administrative control'' of the organization
that's the part that's in question. what's the best way to preserve the integrity and assets of the organization?''
five months after the fbi fired him, former agent john c. ryan is grappling with a religious renewal that caused him to question his past, challenge his supervisors and lose his job
wholesale changes are taking place in the life of a man who was 10 months away from settling into a quiet retirement when he was dismissed sept. 11
after carrying a gun every day during 21 years of loyal fbi service, ryan now is a pacifist who denounces the ``immoral activities'' of the fbi and the united states' involvement in central america
ryan, 49, is selling his peoria home, where he and his wife, peggy, raised four children. and he's pondering a total change in lifestyle while searching for a way to support his family the next 12 years until he can collect his federal pension
it would be inconsistent for me to continue being a heavy consumer knowing how many victims the american lifestyle demands,'' ryan said recently. ``there's war in latin america so we can continue to eat big macs, and i don't want to contribute to that. we're scaling down our lifestyle to a more simplified life.''
his only income comes from speaking engagements and from teaching a sociology class at bradley university. legal fees to fight his dismissal have eaten $13,000 out of the family savings _ perhaps part of the reason for the change in lifestyle
clad in sneakers and jeans, ryan hardly resembled the man who spent two decades in foreign counterintelligence, investigating organized crime in new york and hunting fugitives like anti-war activist daniel berrigan
his work twice won him commendations, but something was missing from his life. a devout roman catholic who once studied for the priesthood, ryan started taking religious study courses about 10 years ago
he earned his master's degree in 1985, and the transformation from a follower of j. edgar hoover into a pacifist began to mature
it was then that ryan knew his beliefs would conflict with his role as chief counterintelligence operative in the fbi's five-man office here. but he never really thought it would lead to his dismissal
refusing an order was something i'd never done before, and i knew an act of insubordination would cost me some sort of disciplinary action,'' ryan said. ``i have religious beliefs they are bound to accommodate. there are office jobs, places i could work in the fbi. i wouldn't have to carry a gun
i think they overreacted in firing me. it was stupid. look at all the notoriety it has caused.''
ryan's life is in turmoil, but he seems content with his decision to refuse an order to investigate an anti-nuclear group suspected of vandalizing 11 chicago-area military recruiting offices
i really feel i did the right thing,'' ryan said. ``i don't know if i could have lived with myself had i done anything differently.''
his firing occurred 10 months before his 50th birthday in june, when he would have been eligible for full retirement with 20 years service
i could have simply ignored the order, but i chose not to. i felt what we were doing was clearly investigating peace groups with the obvious intention of intimidating and harassing them. i thought the fbi was ill-advised to do this and i told them.''
despite his change of heart, the fbi negotiated with ryan and offered to reinstate him, with back pay, in december on the condition he never speak of the case again. he said he signed an agreement and mailed it to fbi headquarters but for some reason the deal collapsed. the fbi has refused to say why
this month, an administrative judge in st. louis ruled the fbi was justified in firing ryan
at a hearing, ryan said he could not take a human life, even if his or another person's life was endangered. he believes that was a key reason his dismissal was upheld
ryan still hopes to reclaim his job and his pension, and an appeal is planned
the mother of a man accused of bursting into a defense company and shooting seven people to death said she's saddened by the ``waste of life'' and wants to send sympathy cards to the victims' families
i wish those people would know how badly we feel,'' mina belle farley said in an interview published sunday. ``i don't know if it would help (to send cards), but we could tell them how sad we are about all of this.''
mrs. farley, 70, also said she was shocked to learn that her son, richard wade farley, was charged with seven counts of murder in tuesday's shootings at esl inc. offices in nearby sunnyvale
we'd never had any problems with rick,'' she told the san jose mercury news in a telephone interview saturday from her home in henderson, texas, about 100 miles east of dallas
mrs. farley and her husband, thomas, who is retired from a career in the air force, learned of the shootings and their oldest child's arrest the next day after they tried to contact him in san jose
neither farley's parents nor any of his five brothers and sisters have heard from him since the attack, she said
we don't communicate much,'' said mrs. farley, who hasn't seen her son since a trip to california 1{ years ago
she also said her son never mentioned 26-year-old laura black, an esl employee who authorities describe as the unwilling object of farley's romantic fantasies
farley's four-year obsession with the electrical engineer is believed by authorities to be the reason for the rampage. he was fired in may 1986 for harassing black, who went to court for a restraining order to stop him from following, calling and writing her, authorities said
black was one of the three people who were shot during the rampage, but she survived. she remained in stable condition at stanford university medical center, where she is expected to remain for several more days
farley remained under 24-hour surveillance at the santa clara county jail. sheriff's lt. mike fine said he was quiet and polite
besides the seven murder counts, farley is charged with three counts of attempted murder. he could face execution if convicted. effort to reach social service officials, other detail, correcting that home's owner was one of those injured, sted escaped unhurt. no pickup.</note>
a fire roared through a crowded house early sunday, killing two children and three mentally retarded adults and injuring four other people, authorities said
the fire apparently started near a wood stove and the rural, two-story house was in flames by the time firefighters arrived, charlotte county investigator w.h. gholson said
phenix firefighters were aided by neighboring departments from redhouse and brookneal, but the blaze destroyed the house
there were 11 people in the house at the time the fire broke out, officials said. jackie hamlett, one of the two who escaped unhurt, identified the victims as helen schofield, 49; dennis jones, 21; ruth berger, 64; amir hall, 3; and rashanda carrington, 18 months
we tried to get the people out of there for 20 or 30 minutes,'' said chief walter bailey of the phenix volunteer fire department. ``then the fire and the heat got to be too much, and i had to pull everybody back.''
beatrice vaughan, 84, was listed in critical condition sunday night at lynchburg general hospital with burn injuries. three other occupants were treated and released, gholson said
the home was owned by helen barrett, who was among those who escaped with minor injuries, gholson said
ms. barrett said the three adults were mentally retarded wards of the state and she was paid by charlotte county social services to take care of them. she said they had lived in her home for as much as 16 years and were relatively self-sufficient
leddie fuller, director of county social services, could not be reached for comment early monday; telephone calls to her home went unanswered
bailey said the fire apparently started after ms. barrett added wood to the stove and returned to bed
we don't know if it was a defective flue or if there was combustible material near the stove right now. we think it probably came from a spark that flew out.''
ms. vaughan discovered the fire when she went downstairs to warm up, bailey said
she got burned by the fire, and that's when barrett and (resident) cathryn hamlett came in and tried to put it out with a fire extinguisher. then they started with buckets of water, but they couldn't do anything to it.''
ms. barrett and cathryn hamlett went to a neighbor's house, where they called the fire department. they were both treated and released
officials said cathryn hamlett was ms. barrett's daughter, and some of the other people in the house were related, but they weren't sure of their exact relationship. they said the only retarded adults who were wards of the state were apparently the three adults who died
four bodies were recovered, but the body of the younger child, who had been sleeping on the second floor, had not been found, bailey said
panama has spent hundreds of thousands of dollars since 1985 hiring american lobbyists to champion the country's cause in congress and improve its image in the united states, records show
among those who have registered as agents of panama are stuart spencer, a long-time political adviser to president reagan; m.b. oglesby jr., former white house assistant for legislative affairs; francis gomez, an executive with ties to lt. col. oliver north's network, and jamie whitten jr., the son of rep. jamie whitten, d-miss
the documents are filed at the justice department in compliance with the foreign agents registration act. the law requires foreign agents to report their activities every six months
many foreign governments hire lobbyists to help learn about the complicated u.s. bureaucracy. in recent years, the practice has attracted congressional scrutiny, particularly when former government officials sell their inside knowledge to foreigners
raul st. malo, a spokesman at panama's embassy, said the government no longer employs any american lobbyists, and the records indicate that many contracts have lapsed
relations between the two countries have deteriorated sharply since gen. manuel antonio noriega, the country's dominant figure, was indicted on drug smuggling charges in miami this month
one of the most recent filings _ covering the period through december 1987 _ was made by gomez, a former state department official and one-time business partner of richard r. miller, an associate of north's
gomez's company, public affairs resources inc., was paid nearly $145,000 between july and december 1987 by a panamanian business group set up in august 1986 to ``promote tourism, exports, investment and an improved image'' for panama
the group, impulso turistico y financiera de panama, is headed by robert cordovez. gomez said cordovez is a businessman with ``ties to people in the government.''
panamanian opposition figures, including roberto eisenmann, the editor of the newspaper la prensa, said cordovez is close to noriega. eisenmann lives in exile in miami
for his money, gomez worked extensively with the panamanian embassy, the documents show. among his duties: ``edited articles written by embassy officials,'' and, ``made copies of newspaper articles, speeches and letters as requested by the embassy.''
the $21,000 a month contract with impulso was first signed in september 1986 by international business communications, a now-defunct firm run by miller and gomez
miller, who worked with north raising money for the nicaraguan contras in 1985 and 1986, has pleaded guilty to tax violations in soliciting contributions for the rebels. there is no indication that gomez worked with north
north, an ex-national security council aide, was fired in november 1986 for his role in using money secured through the sale of arms to iran to help the nicaraguan contra rebels
gomez said his relationship with the panamanian group has ended, and he no longer works with miller
some major firms, such as bill hecht and associates, which employed spencer and oglesby, and daniel j. edelman inc., lost their contracts with panama in 1986, a year in which panama came under increasing attack from u.s. officials
secretary of state george p. shultz registered concern in june 1986 about allegations that noriega engaged in drug-trafficking and gun-running. and sen. jesse helms, r-n.c., called noriega the ``head of the biggest drug trafficking operation in the western hemisphere.'' u.s. aid to panama ceased in late 1987
the law firm of lipsen, hamberger, whitten and hamberger, which did lobbying work for panama, last worked for the country in late 1985, according to martin hamberger
spencer, one of reagan's close friends, worked for the hecht firm, which signed a $25,000-a-month contract with the panamanian government in late 1985, shortly after noriega installed president eric arturo delvalle
the hecht firm's contract, which expired in november 1986, called for discussions with members of congress, their staffs and the executive branch about the ``political, economic and social situation'' in panama
spencer, whose home address is newport beach, calif., flew to panama at least twice, staying at the el panama hilton or the marriott, records show
the documents do not explain exactly what spencer did for panama. spencer did not return two telephone calls, and hecht said it is against his policy to discuss relations with clients
but rep. mike lowery, d-wash., recalled a luncheon at the capitol hill club _ a republican haunt _ that he went to in january 1986 at the invitation of the hecht staff
the hecht people wanted to explore arranging better contacts between panamanian legislators and members of congress, he said. they also discussed u.s. aid to panama, he said. washington shut off all aid to the country in december 1987
bud moss, an aide to sen. paul sarbanes, d-md., said he couldn't recall the topic of panama coming up at a luncheon with frank west, a lobbyist from the hecht firm. ``we talked about banking,'' moss said. the $36.10 meal was charged to panama
steve cook, a representative of edelman, said his firm did press work for panamanian officials roughly between november 1985 and may 1986. one project involved setting up interviews for delvalle's wife at an anti-drug conference in atlanta, he said
raymond bender, a lawyer with dow, lohnes and albertson, said he has represented the panamanian government on some legal matters
a wildfire whipped by winds of up to 50 mph raced through a mountain valley south of here sunday, destroying at least three homes and burning hundreds of acres of grassland, witnesses said
no injuries were reported
firefighters from at least 10 volunteer fire departments in the rural area northwest of yellowstone national park battled the blaze, assisted by volunteers from the forest service, the department of state lands and two mining companies
gail giono, a dispatcher for the jefferson county sheriff's department, said the fire was first reported in early afternoon and had grown to 500 acres by early evening. it remained uncontrolled, and those on the scene reported at least three homes destroyed, she said
the fire was centered about five miles south of this town of 1,000 and was headed eastward, not toward the town, officials said. the homes that burned were scattered rural residences
the wind ``is as bad as i've ever seen it,'' said glen hanson, a trapper who lives on the south edge of town. ``the ... stuff was going faster than you could run.''
a lot of people lost their homes,'' hanson said, but noted he did not know exactly how many homes were destroyed
authorities said it was believed that the fire was caused by a downed power line, but that had not been confirmed
strong winds raked much of montana east of the continental divide on sunday. there were widespread reports of damaged roofs, downed power lines, uprooted trees and toppled billboards and signs
the nikkei stock average closed at 24,846.71 points, up 73.30 points, on the tokyo stock exchange on monday
a 15-year search for meteorites in antarctica has turned up thousands of meteorites, including six from the moon and one possible rock from mars, scientists say
those seven meteorites _ solid bodies that travel through space and survive passage through the earth's atmosphere _ have been the focus of years of scrutiny by scientists looking for insight on the composition of the two heavenly bodies
it has always been assumed that a lot of material should be falling off the moon from meteoritic impact,'' said ursula b. marvin, a geologist at the smithsonian institution's center for astrophysics here. ``we suspected that some of our meteorites came from the moon before the apollo missions.''
marvin was part of the u.s. expedition that discovered the plum-sized rock weighing about four grams in january 1982
japanese scientists have located five lunar meteorites in antarctica. scientists also are ``building a case'' for martian origin of the meteorite found in 1979
comparing the 1982 find with lunar samples collected by american astronauts, scientists found the meteorite closely matched highland materials returned by the apollo 15, 16 and 17 crews
analysis indicated that the fragment was blasted away from the moon by an asteroid impact about 100,000 years ago and hurled to earth
the 66-year-old marvin, who also teaches part-time at harvard university, said the lunar meteorite probably was traveling in space for between 1,900 and 2,500 years before crashing through the atmosphere and landing on the antarctic ice
the antarctic rock believed to be from mars spent about 10 million years in space
some of the 1,000 moon rocks retrieved in the apollo missions have been dated at more than 4 billion years old _ a short time, by geologic standards
x-rays and gamma-rays of the moon's surface taken by apollo orbiters have led scientists to believe the lunar meteorite may come from a crater on the far-eastern rim of the moon or on the unexplored dark side, marvin said
we went to six places on the moon and the russians sent unmanned landers to three places,'' she said. ``we have no exact location for this composition anywhere.''
annual u.s. meteorite expeditions to antarctica occur in the six weeks of the year when the continent is bathed in sunlight 24 hours a day
the national science foundation, the national aeronautics and space administration and the smithsonian provide equipment and financing for research for the meteoritic expeditions, said marvin, who has has made three trips to the 5-million-square-mile continent to search for meteorites
she said that since manned moon exploration stopped after the apollo 17 mission in 1972, meteorite searches are crucial
it's one of the most vital and productive aspects of the space program,'' marvin said. ``as a matter of fact, in planetary exploration it's the only show in town. this all gives us more information _ without actually going up there _ about the evolution of the moon as a body.''
a foul-smelling mist came rolling into atwater, calif., on the night air, silently blanketing a row of homes on the outskirts. within an hour, townsfolk were staggering into the emergency room
environmentalists point to the june 1 incident, which they contend was caused by pesticides sprayed on nearby peach orchards, to fuel their arguments that the nation must do more to control the poisons
the senate agriculture committee is set to try once again to overhaul the federal insecticide, fungicide and rodenticide act (fifra), the primary law providing for regulation of the compounds
pesticides are now a $5 billion-a-year industry. tomatoes, beef, potatoes, apples, pork and many other foods arrive at the dinner table laden with chemicals. in a number of states, pesticides have been found in groundwater, often used for drinking
chemical makers contend that the benefits of pesticides outweigh the risks. they say drinking a glass of well water where contamination has been measured poses less hazard than downing a shot of vodka
however, there are some 113,000 cases of pesticide-related illness and injury logged each year. a may 1987 national academy of sciences report said cancer is caused in laboratory animals by 30 percent of the insecticides most likely to show up in food, 50 percent of the herbicides and 90 percent of the fungicides
congress has moved fitfully at best to tighten regulation of the 1 billion pounds of pesticides sprayed on u.s. fields annually in the war on bacteria, fungi, bugs, worms, mice and other forms of crop blight
critics ridicule fifra as hopelessly toothless. ``we call it a no-law law because it doesn't do anything,'' consumer advocate ralph nader says
a 1972 rewrite of fifra gave the environmental protection agency until 1975 to complete a ``reregistration'' process, including a full-scale safety review, of some 700 pesticides. in 1975, lawmakers approved a one-year extension. in 1978, the deadline was junked altogether
the general accounting office, an investigative arm of congress, now estimates that at the present crawl, the job won't be completed until the year 2024
senate agriculture committee chairman patrick j. leahy, d-vt., and sen. richard g. lugar, r-ind., have proposed a nine-year deadline for the reregistration process, plus a possible two-year extension
i think most americans are willing to put up with a spot on their lettuce or a blemish on their apple rather than risk cancer,'' says leahy
the national agricultural chemicals association, champion of the nation's pesticide makers, has no objection to a speedup in itself
more complex issues, however, are lying in the legislative weeds and could rise up to scuttle the bill. something similar happened in 1986 when a seeming compromise came unglued just before congress adjourned
chemical companies are willing to contribute to the costs of reregistration by paying $150,000 per ingredient. but the leahy-lugar bill calls for $750,000, which the naca calls ``a money grab, pure and simple.''
under current law, companies are entitled to indemnities from epa to compensate for the banning of their products. already the agency has paid $2.4 million to chemical makers for taking the pesticide edb off the market and $18 million for a chemical known as 2,4,5-t, or silex
and the agency estimates it will pay out between $60 million and $155 million in indemnities and disposal costs to get rid of a pesticide called dinoseb, the annual budget of the entire epa pesticide program is $70 million
the leahy-lugar bill would bar such indemnities unless congress passed an individual money bill for each one. such a measure is guaranteed a rough time on capitol hill. the industry is firmly opposed
manufacturers have other objections as well, especially to an amendment leahy co-sponsored with sen. david durenberger, r-minn. naca president jack d. early told the agriculture committee that the leahy-durenberger amendment contains ``an unrealistic ground water definition, unenforceable goals for water quality standards and (an) unworkable state ground and surface water protection program.''
of the main legislation, he said the plan to require separate money bills for indemnities would ``ultimately be bad for agriculture'' because ``there is no guarantee that agricultural users will recoup their losses.''
however, one incentive to action is a provision that would extend patent rights for chemical manufacturers
the 1986 bill passed by the house also included provisions that would preempt states from setting more stringent safety standards than those of the federal government and exempt agricultural producers from cleanup liability under the environmental laws. they were rejected by the senate when it fashioned its own version
in the house, the agriculture and the energy and commerce committees are fighting over jurisdiction of the bill
some fifra critics, such as rick hind of the u.s. public interest research group, declare in disgust that it ``will take a disaster'' to get the house moving on pesticide legislation. but house agriculture committee chairman e. ``kika'' de la garza, d-texas, scoffs at that notion
we don't need a disaster,'' he says. ``we know what we have to do.''
eleven cars of a 133-car union pacific railroad freight train derailed and spilled an acid solution into a creek, threatening the water supply for thousands of people, authorities said
no one was injured in sunday's derailment in which one car spilled about 13,000 gallons of phosphatic fertilizer solution containing phosphoric acid into the creek leading to the lamine river, said walter fussner, a union pacific spokesman
the lamine river, which feeds into the missouri river, is the water source for nearby boonville, a town of nearly 7,000 residents. officials shut off the water intake valve to the community as a precaution, and residents were asked to conserve water, said lt. becky loesing of the cooper county emergency operations office
the jefferson city water department was monitoring its water supply from the missouri river
phosphoric acid can irritate the skin and respiratory system, said larry alderson, environmental emergency specialist with the missouri department of natural resources
a 50-man cleanup crew worked into the night with backhoes and bulldozers to clean up and neutralize the acid. trace elements of the acid were found in the lamine river, but no fish were killed, fussner said
fussner said the cause of the accident, which occurred shortly before noon two miles from the missouri river, was under investigation
union pacific officials called a cleanup contractor, who built a dam to try to prevent the fertilizer from further contaminating the lamine river. lime was hauled in to neutralize the acid, alderson said
fussner said the railroad encountered problems because the spill was in a remote area. no roads lead to the area, and all supplies were being brought in by train
the train was traveling from east st. louis, ill., to north platte, neb., when the accident occurred near this central missouri town
premier jacques chirac, long mired in third place in opinion polls, has seen his presidential campaign take off, giving him an edge over rival conservative raymond barre with two months left before the vote
the first round of the election, april 24, has become in effect a primary election between chirac and barre. unless there is a stunning turnaround, one of the two will oppose a socialist, probably incumbent president francois mitterrand, in the decisive may 8 runoff for a seven-year term
policy differences between chirac and barre are few and minor, so the campaign has focused on the contrasting personalities of the two men, and what their political advisers increasingly call ``le look.''
there is certainly no need for the voters to discover the candidates _ mitterrand has been a major national figure for 40 years, barre and chirac for 15 years each
it's a question of sentiment, who looks better and talks better,'' said bertrand louapre, a barre supporter interviewed on the edges of a cocktail reception during a chirac campaign swing wednesday through reims, capital of the champagne country northeast of paris
personally, i've chosen raymond barre,'' said louapre, a construction engineer. ``mr. chirac has certainly taken off faster. he has much stronger support from his party.''
chirac, a rangy, almost hyperactive figure, then displayed his formidable skills as a campaigner, moving swiftly through the crowd, but often stopping to grasp the hands of his supporters briefly in his own oversized hands
i think the premier is closer to people, and that's what will make him win,'' political science professor alain redslob, author of a book on chirac, said in an interview. ``i think there's a strong movement beginning to lift off.''
the barre style is that of a fairly cold man, who has wanted to give himself an image of rigor,'' bernard pons, chirac's minister of overseas territories, recently said in a radio interview. ``he is a man who is fairly secret and who ... frequently makes decisions alone.''
barre, a rotund economics professor who had never run for public office when he began his five-year term as premier in 1976, is widely respected but inspires little enthusiasm. he prides himself on telling people what they need to know, whether or not they want to hear it
they tell me to offer the french people a dream,'' barre told a campaign rally in the southwestern city of poitiers on wednesday. ``but to dream, one must first go to sleep. i love my country too much, i respect my fellow citizens too much to lend myself to that.''
barre says chirac's government, which took over from the socialists in march 1986, has made some good moves. he says he would take stronger action to boost french industry
mitterrand has long had a solid lead in all published opinion surveys, while chirac trailed barre thoughout last year. a poll published jan. 16, the day chirac declared his candidacy, gave mitterrand 41 percent to 25 percent for barre and 18.5 percent for chirac
but surveys published in the past two weeks have shown chirac pushing ahead. friday's edition of the magazine paris-match, for exampale, reported 23 percent of those questioned planning to vote for chirac, to 19 percent for barre. mitterrand, who says he will wait until mid-march to disclose his plans, remained far ahead with 36 percent
the questions were posed for paris-match and a radio network by the polling firm b.v.a., which between feb. 1-4 interviewed 1,316 people who said they intended to vote. no margin of error was disclosed
barre, who insists on his independence from all political parties, is supported by the union for french democracy, a loose grouping of five center-right parties that is part of chirac's governing coalition
the main event of chirac's five-hour visit to reims was a campaign rally that drew 7,000 supporters to a new exposition hall in the suburbs. many arrived in buses chartered by chirac's party, the rally for the republic, france's most efficient political machine
rather than give a speech, chirac answered questions from three men and two women chosen to raise issues of concern in the region
he defended france's agricultural policies and promised to improve schools and universities so that students learn skills they need to find jobs. he also said he hoped to increase family allowances to mothers of three or more children to the minimum wage, about $825 a month, ``because they deserve it.''
the first question asked of chirac, who is juggling duties as mayor of paris, premier of france and member of a regional council in south-central france, was how he can do all the work
i'm an optimist by nature,'' he replied, ``which probably gives me more energy to face problems.''
young cancer victims and their parents gained emotional support and more than $300,000 in financial help from college students who swayed and staggered through a 48-hour dance marathon
i just like the fact that people are dancing not just to dance for fun but to help kids,'' said 10-year-old diane brannon of etters, a leukemia patient who took a few turns around the dance floor with penn state university students sunday
billed as the largest student-run fund-raising event in the country, the 16th annual interfraternity dance marathon raised $324,200 in pledges for the four diamonds fund at penn state's milton s. hershey medical center, organizers said sunday
diane's mother, teresa, said she and her husband, jim, would have been forced to sell their house without financial help from the fund, which helps pay for treatment of children suffering from cancer
bob sherfy, a social worker at hershey medical center who works with the young cancer victims, said the dance marathon offered the parents and children more than money
they know there's someone out in the world who cares about them,'' sherfy said
near then end of the marathon, participants complained of sore feet, fatigue and boredom
it's torture,'' said marc baskin, a junior management major from glen cove, n.y
but baskin and many other dancers said they gained resolve from the children at the dance
when they brought the kids in saturday, you said to yourself, `you can do it,''' said tammie rutherford, a sophomore business management major from white plains, n.y
hundreds of volunteers, clad in yellow t-shirts, attended the hobbled and weary dancers as they endured the final leg of the marathon
tom west, a sophomore sports medicine major from west long branch, n.j., taped feet, iced ankles and treated blisters from a trainer's table off the dance floor
some people come in and their feet are just flat,'' said west, explaining that fallen arches were the most frequent physical malady
carol stelmach, a junior marketing major from baltimore, said she and other dancers had a tactic for keeping their minds off their feet
you have to do something that makes you think of your hands,'' ms. stelmach said. she said she had played catch using a frisbee and balls and even participated in a card game
a total of 272 couples _ 544 dancers _ entered the marathon this year, said pat dugan, a senior accounting major from pittsburgh and head of the organizing committee. a total of 506 finished
they were allowed only three-minute breaks every eight hours and three other three-minute breaks at some time during the marathon
spectators filled the white building gymnasium to capacity for the final hours of the marathon, clapping and cheering
dugan said this year's marathon was the most financially successful in the event's history
james h. brucker, director of development for the medical center, said the marathon is the single biggest source of income for the four diamonds fund
last year, the dance marathon raised $297,000, dugan said. win</head>
democrat richard gephardt, who has made ``it's your fight too'' his populist rally cry, has chosen this state as a staging ground for a bid to block michael dukakis from sweeping the handful of states holding presidential primaries or caucuses before super tuesday
south dakota, and to a lesser extent wyoming, are the states chosen by the gephardt campaign for an intensive effort even as the three-week campaign for the south and its rich pool of delegates has already begun
according to the calendar and the democratic party's nomination rules, south dakota might not appear a major battleground. its primary was set for tuesday, earlier than national democratic officials wanted it, only after agreement was reached that means the state's nominating delegates won't be selected until later and won't be bound by the primary outcome
but gephardt has attached far more significance to south dakota, boarding a jet to fly here just as the sun was starting to rise wednesday morning on his badly needed second-place finish in new hampshire
you have a powerful voice in the election in 1988,'' gephardt told a group of senior citizens in sioux falls, on the opposite end of the state
sen. paul simon of illinois, his campaign on the ropes after finishing behind the missouri congressman in iowa and new hampshire, has chosen minnesota and south dakota to make what could be his last stand
he said at one point that if he didn't win in south dakota, or in minnesota's caucuses which also are held tuesday, he will drop out of the race, but then backed off on that assertion, citing a surge of donations
gephardt strategists, however, say it is not simon but dukakis that they regard as their bigger concern in those two states, coming as he does off a big victory in new hampshire's primary last tuesday
that is in part because gephardt would like to have a primary victory before heading into the 20-state contests on march 8. perhaps more importantly, however, his campaign would like to block dukakis from gaining the state and going into the south with one or even more victories under his belt from outside his native new england
they do not want dukakis to have the suggestion of inevitibility riding on his side should gephardt _ or one of the other candidates _ fail to stop him
there are five states holding primaries or caucuses between now and the contests across the south on super tuesday. they are sometimes referred to in the jargon of the campaign trail as the ``lesser antilles'' or the ``gateway states'' to super tuesday
a boost from any of these five gateway states would give us a boost to super tuesday,'' said ali webb, gephardt's press secretary
the contests include maine's caucuses feb. 26 and vermont's beauty-contest primary march 1. the gephardt campaign is conceding the new england states to dukakis, governor of nearby massachusetts
gephardt attended a debate in minnesota last week but isn't otherwise competing in the state, arguing that its caucus system and internal party divisions make it too confusing to spend time competing
gephardt brought close to 20 paid staffers from south dakota to iowa as soon as iowa's caucuses were finished. they have purchased $40,000 in television commercials in the states's two major cities, rapid city and sioux falls _ an amount of money small by other states' standards but regarded as large in the state of fewer than three-quarters of a million people
internal polling conducted by the gephardt campaign wednesday night showed dukakis was leading in the state by a nine-point margin, with no other candidates close. but it also showed the race was largely uniformed in the state, less than a week before the voting
another candidate, albert gore jr. of tennessee, has been quietly at work in south dakota and wyoming too, even as he concentrates on the states of his native south. he has ads on the air in south dakota and has visited wyoming several times
another reason for concentrating here is that gephardt forces believe the states should respond nicely to his populist message _ an assertion the nation is in economic decline in part because of unfair trade practices by asian countries
gephardt's support for an oil import fee is considered a plus, particularly in wyoming, where a large oil industry remains hard-hit by depressed prices
he stressed that at a small rally in casper, wyo., last week, and seemed to strike a chord among the audience
barb reese, a member of the county democratic executive committee, said she saw gore speak in wyoming a week or so earlier but found gephardt more appealing. she said she was wavering, and might back gephart rather than go along with an effort by state party leaders to back an uncommitted slate
i was really set on being uncommitted in the caucuses because i thought it was best for wyoming,'' she said. but, she said: ``i'm impressed.''
house negotiators are making plans to scuttle a trade retaliation plan authored by democratic presidential hopeful richard gephardt, but the missouri congressman is vowing to fight for his amendment
conferees plan to strip the provision from a house-passed trade measure in an effort to save the overall bill, according to congressional leaders
but lawmakers suggest that as a courtesy to gephardt, the conferees will wait until after the march 8 super tuesday primary elections before formally abandoning the proposal
the gephardt provision will be dropped. we're going to dump it because it's bad policy,'' said rep. sam gibbons, d-fla., chairman of the trade subcommittee of the house ways and means committee and a member of the house-senate conference committee hammering out a compromise trade bill
the gephardt plan calls for trade retaliation against japan and other trading partners that maintain large trade surpluses with the united states. the omnibus trade legislation it is attached to has languished in congress since last fall
gephardt's a nice fellow and he's got a lot of friends here,'' gibbons said. ``we're kind of proud of him. but we're not going to make his amendment law.''
gibbons and other house leaders said that once super tuesday is past, the house conferees will move quickly to get rid of the gephardt provision _ regardless of how he does in those primary states
gephardt said he has no intention of dropping his push for the amendment that bears his name
i'm going to fight for my amendment,'' he said as he campaigned in south dakota on sunday. ``i think it will make it through the conference'' committee
the missouri congressman, who has made trade issues a key part of his presidential pitch, was asked if rejection of the amendment would hurt his campaign. ``let's see what the result is before we jump to conclusions,'' he said
conference leaders have held off on moving ahead on the measure to await the results of the early presidential contests _ in part because gephardt's amendment is such a major part of the house bill
president reagan opposes the imposition of retaliatory trade measures by congress, and the white house has said he will veto the trade bill if it contains gephardt's amendment
twenty states hold democratic primary elections on march 8, with 13 in the south where trade is a major issue because of import-battered textile and other local industries
however, with recent signs that the nation's stubborn trade deficit is finally easing under the pressure of a weaker dollar, which makes u.s. goods more competitive overseas, political sentiment has been shifting in congress away from tough retaliatory sanctions
last october's stock market plunge, which underscored the fragility of world financial markets, has also subdued some of the most vocal calls for protectionist measures on capitol hill
the gephardt measure, passed last spring by the house, is aimed particularly at japan. it would require mandatory retaliation after a six-month period if those negotiations prove fruitless. then, a 10 percent a year reduction in the offending nation's trade surplus _ through tariffs or quotas _ would be required
trade analysts suggest that as long as the gephardt amendment is a central part of the house bill, action on trade this year is likely to remain paralyzed; and the better gephardt does in the primary campaigns, the harder it will be to win agreement on any compromise trade bill
actually, democratic leaders have said privately for some time that, at some point, the gephardt amendment would have to be dropped
however, deciding just how to go about it with the presidential election year in full swing has all but frozen action on the trade measure until now
addressing the afl-cio executive council in bal harbour, fla., last week, house speaker jim wright, d-texas, predicted that the conference panel would agree on ``something in between'' gephardt's proposal and the milder senate version
the senate bill calls for formal investigations that could lead to sanctions against nations running large trade surpluses but would not require blanket retaliation
a man awakened by three intruders searching his apartment for a stolen jacket fatally shot one of them with a crossbow, authorities said
james r. hucek, 21, was killed after he and his two companions burst into tom hedgecock's apartment early saturday, according to jim solomons, a spokesman for the orange county sheriff's office
gregory m. farmer and joseph roehrick were being held without bail after being charged with burglary and second-degree murder under a state law that permits such prosecution for those involved in a felony resulting in death
it was pretty traumatic,'' said the 27-year-old hedgecock, who was shot in the leg
solomons said hucek, roehrick, 22, and farmer, 25, spotted hedgecock's roommate when they were out driving late friday
the three thought that the roommate, kurt chaillet, had something to do with the theft of an expensive leather jacket that belonged to one of them, solomons said
chaillet, 25, joined the three for driving and beer drinking and later took them back to the apartment, where they confronted him with their suspicions and demanded to search the apartment, solomons said
the search, which turned up no leather jacket, quickly turned into a ransacking, and the noise woke hedgecock, solomons said
he told them to get out,'' solomons said. when they refused, hedgecock armed himself with a screwdriver and forced them out
he locked and bolted the door, but the three kicked in the door and pushed their way inside, where hedgecock had armed himself with a crossbow
he fired once, striking hucek in the chest and killing him
the violence continued as chaillet ran to call authorities. the fight between farmer, roehrick and hedgecock moved into the parking lot, where roehrick pulled a gun from his truck and shot twice, hitting hedgecock in the leg, solomons said
when deputies arrived, they found farmer and roehrick in the parking lot and hedgecock sitting on his couch
george vassiliou, a communist-backed millionaire businessman, was formally proclaimed president today and vowed to be flexible in seeking reunification of this war-divided island
in his first foray into politics, the 56-year-old vassiliou narrowly defeated veteran conservative leader glafcos clerides in sunday's runoff
it was cyprus' closest election since independence from britain in 1960
vassiliou is committed to peace talks with the turkish cypriots in the northern, turkish-occupied part of cyprus
he told thousands of jubilant and cheering supporters on sunday night that he would ``launch an unprecedented effort to promote a settlement.''
vassiliou has promised to abandon the inflexible approach of president spyros kyprianou, who insisted on the withdrawal of 30,000 turkish troops and 65,000 mainland settlers from the north as a precondition to resumed peace talks. kyprianou had sought a third five-year term, but was knocked out in the election's first round on feb. 14. he endorsed neither vassiliou nor clerides
in an acceptance speech broadcast by the state radio, vassiliou said he also will work for the withdrawal of the turkish troops and settlers and for the right of the 180,000 greek cypriot refugees to return to their homes in the north. turkey invaded the island in 1974 following a short-lived coup by greek cypriot extremists favoring union with greece
rauf denktash, president of the turkish cypriot breakaway state established in 1983, has offered to meet the new president in preliminary talks to break a 3-year-old deadlock in united nations-sponsored peace talks
vassiliou, who ran as an independent with the support of the powerful communist party, defeated clerides on sunday with 51.63 percent of the vote. he won 167,834 votes to 157,228 or 48.37 percent for the 68-year-old clerides, said kyriacos christofi, chief election official
christofi formally proclaimed vassiliou president early today in a speech from the first-story balcony of the eight-story building that houses vassiliou's market research company, the largest in the middle east
the new president ordered cameramen of the state-run television not to film leftists waving red flags in the crowd of 5,000 supporters gathered to cheer the proclamation
a pre-dawn victory rally in the capital's main square was called off after minor scuffles between vassiliou supporters and backers of clerides
vassiliou repeatedly appealed for calm during his broadcast speech and in earlier statements, declaring that he saw his election as a victory for cyprus
there is no victor or vanquished. we should all work for the good of cyprus,'' he said, stressing the need for national unity
voting was compulsory for all greek cypriots over 21. more than 90 percent of the 363,000 registered voters cast valid ballots
reunification was the main issue of the campaign, with both vassiliou and clerides stressing the urgency of breaking a peace talks deadlock to avoid the risk of international recognition for the breakaway turkish cypriot state
the proclamation of a statelet by the 150,000 turkish cypriots was branded invalid by the u.n. security council and has only been recognized by turkey
the turkish cypriots took no part in the election
the new president will be sworn in next sunday
the union representing 4,500 pan am ground employees in 14 cities vowed ``guerrilla warfare'' against the airline after talks in which management is seeking $35 million in concessions broke down
the pan american world airways reservation clerks and other ground staff represented by the teamsters continued working sunday after the union's 12:01 a.m. strike deadline passed
we can strike any time we want,'' said william genoese, director of the teamsters airline division
we're going to pick our strategic time,'' genoese said. meantime, he said, teamsters would attempt to disrupt operations through ``guerrilla warfare,'' starting immediately
there's going to be trouble on the job,'' he said. ``they're not going to correct anybody's errors, they're not going to help anybody, they're not going to do anything for anybody.''
but a pan am spokesman, jeff kriendler, called genoese ``the jerk'' and said his words were ``completely ridiculous.''
whereas the leadership may be at warfare with pan am, the rank and file are completely loyal to the company. it is not in their hearts to turn their backs on their customers,'' kriendler said
and, kriendler added, any workers taking part in that warfare would face ``discipline in the severest form.''
a federal mediator said both sides told him they would act on his request to reevaluate their positions
the board will stay in touch with the parties and there will be a resumption of negotiations at an early and appropriate time,'' said walter c. wallace of the federal mediation board
negotiations began late saturday at wallace's request, and continued for six hours past the strike deadline. when talks broke off sunday morning, teamsters leaders promised that union members _ reservation clerks, customer service agents and other clerical staff _ would continue to work
the talks resumed in the afternoon at pan am headquarters here, but recessed after about a half-hour when the company rejected the mediator's call for arbitration, genoese said
the dispute involves pan am's attempts to cut costs by $35 million through concessions by the teamsters. the airline has said it needs about $540 million in concessions from its unionized employees during the next three years to ensure its survival
asked about the major points of contention, kriendler said, ``let's say that the company long ago established a $35 million objective of achieving cost reductions. what is negotiable is how we reach the $35 million figure.''
the company does not view the amount as negotiable, kriendler said, but the union maintains that it is
the company said it would maintain operations with replacement workers in the event of a strike. the transport workers union voted friday not to support a teamsters' strike, and pilots, flight attendants and flight engineers were not expected to honor picket lines
the teamsters represent workers at airports in boston, detroit, chicago, seattle, san francisco, san diego, los angeles, honolulu, houston, washington, new york and the florida cities of tampa, orlando and miami. the vast majority of the workers are employed in new york and miami
israeli foreign minister shimon peres says he is concerned about the soviet role in setting up arab-israeli peace talks even as the soviets pledged to be more of a factor in negotiations
peres, who favors an international conference to quell the violence in the occupied west bank and gaza strip, voiced doubts about soviet involvement in arranging such a conference
the deaths of two arabs sunday brought the number of palestinians killed by israelis since the protests began dec. 8 to 61, according to u.n. figures
what role the russians will play depends on what role the international conference will play,'' peres said sunday in an interview from jerusalem on abc-tv's ``this week with david brinkley.''
i would never agree that any foreign country, russia or other country, will make decisions instead of us or will try to force us to make a decision,'' peres said. ``i don't accept the russian concept that an international conference should be an authoritative conference. i think it should be an authorizing conference, namely enabling the parties to negotiate among themselves freely.''
peres said he understood that jordan, egypt, israel and the united states share this view
the foreign minister said the conference ``should be like somebody that opens the door to a new era, but not somebody who replaces the residents in the house itself.''
peres also acknowledged sunday that he sent a handwritten note to attorney general edwin meese iii in 1985 about a proposed iraqi pipeline
peres, who was israel's prime minister at the time, previously has denied writing to meese that he supported the $1 billion, 540-mile pipeline project, which was never built
meanwhile in moscow, soviet foreign minister eduard a. shevardnadze, prior to meeting with secretary of state george p. shultz, said that his government wants ``to play a more active role _ also in the negotiations.''
shultz, who travels to israel later this week, met with soviet officials to discuss the next superpower summit meeting between president reagan and soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev, the iran-iraq war and the conflict in the middle east
prime minister yitzhak shamir of israel has resisted soviet participation in the search for a middle east settlement. in addition to not having relations with israel, the soviets generally support arab positions
the soviets broke relations with israel after it defeated egypt, then a soviet ally, in the 1967 mideast war. however, a small group of soviet diplomats was sent to israel last year to take care of some consular matters
peres emphasized the urgent need for negotiations
i'm convinced that the time has really come _ which shouldn't be postponed _ to start to negotiate and find a solution which will answer the expressions of the palestinians on one hand, and the security call of israel on the other,'' he said
israeli defense minister yitzhak rabin, interviewed on cbs-tv's ``face the nation,'' welcomed u.s. efforts to set up talks on resolving the mideast crisis and never was asked about a soviet role
i believe it's a very good idea to bring about a beginning of a talking,'' rabin said. ``after all, the problem that we face can be solved only by political means. by military means, by force, we can bring about tranquility but not a solution. ..
we have a very great respect and trust to secretary shultz. we believe that he is honest, decent human being and is trying his best to bring about a beginning of a talk.''
former secretary of state henry kissinger, who appeared on the abc program, said negotiations should be conducted under u.s. auspices and not soviet authority
i have the gravest doubts about an international conference,'' kissinger said. ``i have grave doubts about a soviet role, unless the soviets are willing to ask of their arab friends what we are going to propose to our israeli friends. so, i think that american mediation is the best course.''
president daniel ortega charged that u.s. lawmakers who are seeking to secure additional aid for the contra rebels are egotistically toying with nicaraguan lives
ortega said in a two-hour speech to the national assembly on sunday that, despite a feb. 4 vote in the house of representatives against a reagan administration request for more contra aid, ``this chapter has not closed.''
president reagan, he said, will look for a way to get more money to the rebels by calling the assistance humanitarian aid
if the (u.s.) congress approves that type of financing, it would be erasing the word peace that it wrote when it voted against the funds, and would be putting (in) the word `war,''' ortega said in the speech, broadcast over a government national radio network
that is the little game of congress, a congress where many interests, particularly egotistical, are involved and which is playing with life, hunger, security and the self-determination of the nicaraguan people,'' he said
the house voted against reagan's plan to give the contras a $36.2 million aid package that included about $3.6 million for weapons and ammunition to help them in their 6{-year-old fight against the leftist sandinista government
democrats prevailed in the vote, 219-211, after the party's leadership promised members there would be a later chance to vote on a package of contra aid for food, clothing, medicine and shelter only
a group of democrats, together with one or two republicans who voted against the president's plan, have been trying to draw up such an alternative
one proposal for the alternative aid request would give the contras humanitarian aid at a rate of about $1.8 million a month
ortega said 26,500 people have been killed since the war began and 23,882 wounded. other, unofficial sources, have put the death toll at more than 40,000. the war, he said, has cost the country $3.6 billion
damage to the economy was estimated at $376 million last year, exceeding the $270 million in export earnings, he said
even so, he said, the economy advanced at an inflation-adjusted rate of 1.7 percent in 1987. it contracted 0.4 percent in 1986
the inflation rate skyrocketed to 1,347 percent last year, well ahead of the 657 percent of the previous year
the government last week unveiled a new program to try to control runaway inflationm. it introduced a new cordoba currency, boosted prices of basic goods, increased salaries and cracked down on speculators
the dollar fell slightly against the japanese yen today, closing at 129.95 yen, while stock prices in tokyo rose moderately
on the tokyo stock exchange, the nikkei stock average of 225 selected issues, which posted a 98.05-point gain last friday, added another 73.30 points or 0.29 percent to close the day's trading at 24,846.71 points. volume in the first section was 870 million shares
the dollar opened trading monday at 129.95 yen, down 0.58 yen from last friday's close of 130.53, and ranged between 129.87 and 130.05 yen. trading totaled $2.526 billion
there's absolutely nothing going on'' in the foreign exchange market, said a trader at goldman sachs who spoke on condition of anonymity. ``the dollar's been moving in a 10-point range in inactive trading. it's extremely, extremely quiet.''
traders said the dollar's relative stability against the yen was behind the recent upswing of stock prices in tokyo
prospects of favorable trade and economic figures for fiscal 1987, which ends march 31, helped lift stock prices, said kunihiro ono of nomura securities, japan's largest brokerage
other traders said share prices also were boosted by a report published over the weekend that the economic planning agency foresees a 4 percent growth in japan's gross national product in 1988
dealers said buying interest faded and volume sagged after a sharp rally in the morning session, as investors began to worry about a correction following the market`s rally last week
foods and retails, such as seven-eleven, had a fast speculative run, along with securities companies and steels, which were stronger earlier in the day but eased off in later trading, according to stephen codrington of jardine fleming ltd
light electricals, constructions and pharmaceuticals also firmed, while department stores and textiles fell back, other traders said
the reagan administration is likely to find out during a visit by portuguese prime minister anibal cavaco silva this week if a proposed $46 million increase in military aid satisfies portugal's request for more compensation for u.s. use of a major air base
cavaco silva's first trip to washington since he took office last august is expected to be dominated by discussion of the base situation, which has injected a dose of sourness into an otherwise sweet relationship between the two nato nations
portugal is getting $117 million in u.s. assistance this fiscal year _ in nato only turkey and greece got more _ but that was $30 million less than the fiscal 1987 payment
in the budget sent to congress last week, portugal would get $163 million
portugal wants $207 million a year, which u.s. negotiators pledged in 1983 they would make their ``best efforts'' to provide in return for a base-rights agreement that gives the united states access to lajes air base in the mid-atlantic azores islands
besides being part of the nato chain of bases, lajes is viewed by the pentagon as an indispensable refueling point for mammoth transports heading for the middle east and africa
the grumbling in lisbon is similar to noises being heard in the philippines, greece, turkey and spain _ allies seeking more benefits from the united states in return for use of military installations
security cooperation is an important part of the relationship between the united states and portugal and obviously will be discussed during the prime minister's visit,'' the portuguese embassy said in its announcement of cavaco silva's meetings, which include talks with reagan on wednesday
there will be further discussions about promised economic assistance,'' the embassy said
under the terms of the base rights agreement, portugal has the right to demand a review of the pact at its mid-term, which occurs this month. the form of the review is not spelled out, but u.s. officials have said it could result in a demand by portugal for specific amounts of additional aid
after defense secretary frank c. carlucci visited lisbon feb. 3-4, the two countries announced an agreement under which portugal would hold off calls for a formal review of the pact and the united states would supply surplus military equipment to compensate for the aid cutback
since then, however, the agreement has come under attack
portuguese president mario soares said the surplus equipment agreement is unsatisfactory
in a speech last thursday, portuguese foreign minister joao de deus pinheiro said he favored ``an update'' of the defense accord
officials of both countries _ notably pentagon and state department officers sympathetic to portugal's requests and frustrated by budget strictures _ have said the dispute is purely financial
unlike in spain and greece, where the voters support a reduced u.s. military presence, there is widespread support for the american bases in portugal
the upcoming portuguese-american negotiations shouldn't be dramatized,'' pinhero said. ``our common interests and views far exceed any possible bilateral difficulties.'' ^plane hijack attempt foiled</head>
hijackers on monday tried to commandeer a china airlines plane carrying 105 passengers on a domestic flight but were foiled by crew members, officials of the airline reported
officials of china airlines, taiwan's official flag carrier, said the boeing 737 was en route from taipei to the southern port of kaohsiung, 240 miles away, when the hijack attempt occurred
china airlines officials declined to identify the hijackers, say how many persons were involved, or provide any additional information. the said further details would be released at a news conference later today
in 1985, an attempted hijacking occurred aboard a china airlines' boeing 737 flying the same route with 107 passengers. a homesick army sergeant who wanted to see his parents was overpowered by crew members after he seized a stewardess. agreeing to congressional request to keep midgetman program alive.</note>
the new pentagon budget has reopened the bitter fight between congress and the reagan administration over the mx nuclear missile and how to build america's future arsenal of land-based atomic weapons
and in the latest round _ on a possible successor to the mx missile _ past administration critics have gained grudging support from an unusual quarter _ defense secretary frank carlucci
although he personally doesn't think much of the midgetman missile, the congressionally designated heir apparent to the mx, carlucci has agreed to request enough funding to keep the project alive until a new administration can make the final decision
the budget sent to the democratic-controlled congress last week proposed $807 million to buy a dozen more of the 10-warhead mx weapons, along with $793 million for a new method of basing the giant missiles aboard trains
the current plan is to put 50 of the weapons into silos on warren air force base in southeastern wyoming. the air force also wants to build 50 more and deploy two each aboard 25 specially-built trains
but carlucci told the senate armed services committee last week that if it were up to him, he would put all 100 mx weapons on the trains
we badly need a survivable missile system,'' he explained
that statement echoed criticisms by mx opponents, who claimed during a series of long fights in reagan's first term that putting the mx into land-based silos would make the missiles vulnerable to a first strike by accurate soviet missiles
former defense secretary caspar weinberger strongly disagreed and pushed hard for approval for 100 of the weapons. they were to replace some of the aging minuteman missiles which now make up the heart of america's land-based nuclear missile force
after a series of long fights, congress finally agreed to put 50 of the weapons in land-based silos and then approved the single-warhead midgetman weapon as a successor to the mx. the air force agreed with that plan, but later reagan decided to try to win approval for the second 50 mx weapons
even as the budget was unveiled thursday, mx critics were lining up to oppose the railroad-basing plan
the debate concerning survivability has been raging for years and apparently will continue,'' said rep. nicholas mavroules, d-mass., one of the chief opponents of the weapon in reagan's first term
based on the available data, serious questions remain regarding the safety and survivability of that type of deployment system,'' said mavroules. ``because of these lingering questions, congress must be concerned about the rashness of this proposal.''
another critic, rep. les aucoin, d-ore., said ``rail garrison would be vulnerable to more than soviet missiles. because commercial rail lines would be used, the threat of terrorism and sabotage must be considered serious.''
additionally, in light of the recent problems surrounding the safety of our nation's rail system, it is not pleasant to contemplate the thought of nuclear warheads being trundled around through populated areas.''
both mavroules and aucoin promised to try to eliminate all money for the rail-basing plan
carlucci also said he wanted to kill the midgetman program because budgetary restraints made it necessary to choose between midgetman and the mx. but to meet a congressional request, he included $200 million to keep the program alive until a new president takes office next year
that met with the approval of sen. sam nunn, d-ga., chairman of the senate armed services committee and a midgetman supporter
i felt it would be a mistake to zero the program and i wanted it kept alive for the next administration. this money seems to me to meet that request,'' said nunn, who helped defeat an attempt to kill the midgetman program two months ago
of the 50 mx weapons to be deployed, 33 are now in their silos, but only 20 of those are operational because of problems in delivering the guidance systems. but carlucci said that all 50 will be in the silos by the end of 1988
cars and trucks capable of switching from one fuel to another could discourage future oil price increases by foreign producers, the energy department says
the department says dual-fuel motor vehicles, in sufficient numbers on american highways, would offer that benefit even if the foreign oil producers also supplied the second, non-petroleum fuel
in the first of a series of reports planned for this year on alternate fuels, the department says enough twin-fuel vehicles would have to be in use to switch away from about 1 million barrels of oil a day
the united states uses almost 17 million barrels of oil per day, a bit more than a third of it imported, and five-eighths of it devoted to transportation
it would take a decade of spending several billion dollars a year to build the plants and distribution system necessary for significant switching ability to methanol or natural gas, the report said
the department and many in the oil industry are worried that imports will account for 60 percent of supplies by the middle of the next decade. that would give the organization of petroleum exporting countries leverage it has been unable to exercise in the surplus-sloshed soft markets of recent years, because opec will then have the only spare production capacity available in the world
the department promised more detailed reports on the experience of other countries, supply prospects, environmental effects and a cost-benefit analysis later this year. the most recent report was described as ``context and analytical framework.''
whatever strategy the country goes with has got to withstand cyclical swings in oil prices,'' said scott campbell, director of the office of policy, planning and analysis, whose staff did the work
though other approaches should be pursued, only methanol ``appears at this stage of the assessment to be a fuel with clear potential for meeting a significant percentage of this country's transportation fuel demand in the short run,'' the study said
the study director, vito stagliano, estimated that a dual-fuel car would cost $50 to $350 more in volume production. ford motor co. already has produced several hundred
to cut oil demand by 1 million barrels a day, the report estimated these needs:
_ten new methanol plants each year for a decade, costing a total of $20 billion to $25 billion
_development of 10,000 to 30,000 alternative-capable retail outlets a year, with an eventual total of 150,000 stations costing more than $5 billion in all. no cost estimate was given for changing pipelines, barges and other distribution facilities to methanol
_methanol-compatible vehicles entering the motor vehicle fleet at a rate of 1.5 million to 8 million a year. there are more than 170 million cars, trucks and buses on u.s. highways now
except in emergencies, motorists would not use methanol unless it were ``perceptibly less expensive'' _ more than two gallons of methanol are needed to provide the mileage obtainable with a gallon of gasoline
nevertheless, it is conceivable that the very prospect of seeing large volumes of the demand for oil translate into demand for alternative fuels will in itself discourage future increases in oil prices,'' the report said
methanol is made most cheaply from natural gas. the report observed that although the united states is the world's biggest methanol producer, it has been a net importer since 1982, and middle eastern countries can produce at half the u.s. cost
a future methanol market ``could be dominated by opec oil suppliers, or it might be one in which those countries play a less significant role,'' the report said
middle eastern countries could supply u.s. methanol needs economically, but ``any increase in the total potential supply of liquid fuels in the world should tend to enhance u.s. energy security, because it would cause the world energy market to loosen up,'' the report said
a methanol cartel that raised prices would call forth increased supplies from elsewhere, just as oil output expanded elsewhere in the 1970s after opec began steep price hikes, the report said
because feedstocks of natural gas are more widely distributed, even greater price competition would result in this case,'' it said
california continued to pace the nation last year in the receipt of pentagon contracts despite suffering a significant drop in awards compared to the previous year, new reports show
california also maintained its position as the state with the largest defense department payroll, as well as the no. 1 destination for military retirees. payroll and pension checks combined pumped $12.7 billion into the california economy in fiscal 1987, the reports show
nationally, the pentagon awarded $147.12 billion in contracts for work performed inside the united states during fiscal 1987 _ a drop of $2.1 billion compared to fiscal 1986
it also paid out $84.5 billion in payroll and pensions during the year to individuals retired or working inside the united states, up $2.7 billion compared to the previous year
of that $84.5 billion grand total, $26.3 billion went to pay civilian employees in the 50 states; $34 billion went to pay active-duty personnel in the 50 states; $5.5 billion went to pay reservists and national guard members, and $18.7 billion went to retirees
the new figures are contained in two annual statistical reports _ one known as the defense department ``atlas'' and the other entitled ``prime contract awards by state'' _ that attempt to show how pentagon spending is affecting the 50 states
those figures will be augmented in the coming months with additional reports on such things as the nation's top defense contractors; total contract actions, including work outside the united states, and civilian and military employee comparisons
the state statistics for fiscal 1987 show that the 12 months ending last sept. 30 produced some unusually wide swings in pentagon spending patterns
for example, california easily paced the nation with military contractors in that state winning $24.5 billion in awards. but that total represented an 11.6 percent drop, or $3.2 billion less than the $27.7 billion in contracts awarded in fiscal 1986
similarly, texas tumbled from second place to fourth in the contract rankings because of 20.9 percent decline in awards, while virginia climbed from eighth to fifth thanks to a whopping 44.5 percent increase in awards
texas finished the fiscal year with awards totaling $8.65 billion, while virginia finished with $7.8 billion. second place went to new york with $9.6 billion, while third place went to massachusetts with $8.69 billion
the remainder of the top 10 included missouri at sixth place with $6 billion; florida with $5.8 billion; connecticut with $5 billion; maryland with $4.75 billion, and ohio with $4.5 billion
even setting aside contracting, california benefited the most from the defense department's presence, with $12.7 billion flowing into the state in pension checks and salaries for civilian, active-duty and reserve employees
virginia, texas, florida and georgia rounded out the top five, retaining the same positions in fiscal 1987 they had the year before. virginia saw $8.8 billion flow into its borders in total compensation, compared to $6.6 billion for texas, $5.6 billion in florida and $3.2 billion in georgia
the remainder of the top 10 included north carolina with $3 billion in total compensation; maryland with $2.74 billion; washington with $2.66 billion; pennsylvania with $2.4 billion, and south carolina with $2.3 billion
breaking down those figures to focus on retiree compensation, the most money again flowed into california _ totaling $2.7 billion. next was texas with $1.9 billion, followed by florida with $1.88 billion; virginia with $1.4 billion and georgia with $682.5 million. investigators say</head>
a federal watchdog says it is time to use a few of the millions of dollars spent annually on anti-drug education to answer a simple question: what works and what doesn't?
that was the conclusion reached by inspector general richard kusserow after he was asked by the white house to evaluate a variety of programs
in weeks of studying nancy reagan's ``just say no'' campaign and two other antidrug efforts targeted at the very young, investigators found more questions than answers
the main recommendation in a preliminary version of kusserow's report is that federal agencies ``should develop an evaluation strategy to include long- and short-term evaluations of the implementation and effectiveness of youth drug education programs.''
specifically, he said those strategies should be devised by the education department and the alcohol, drug abuse and mental health administration
kusserow, charged with monitoring programs of the department of health and human services, agreed to discuss the study after the associated press obtained a draft copy
he acknowledged that the document lacks the precision typically associated with ig reports, but said that should not be read as an indictment of any of the programs surveyed. in fact, he said, ``it looks like they're on the right track.''
but the former fbi agent said his investigators' attempts to determine whether the programs are ``just fluff and puffery or real'' were hampered by lack of measurable data
there is no evidence that seems to be available to tell us how successful these programs are,'' he said. ``i think we've put the first layer in, but if you want to have an ongoing, effective program we're going to get more sophisticated. you cannot get sophisticated until you start developing some objective criteria and some instruments to measure progress
our concern is that if these programs satisfy themselves that they can relax on their laurels and sort of coast on to ever increasing success, i think they're deluding themselves. if we want to increase the effectiveness of the programs we are going to have some sort of measurement that would allow them to know what are successful techniques versus the less successful techniques.''
kusserow added: ``you're not talking about hoards of money to do that. you're just saying that somewhere along the line they're going to have to set aside some resource to look at how they can go about developing a model they can measure.''
and developing such measurements, he said, are beyond the scope of the ig's office
in addition to ``just say no,'' a loosely knit association of local efforts operating under a private foundation, the ig study looked at the boys clubs of america's ``smart moves'' and the national federation of parents' ``drug free youth.''
these programs sort of spontaneously came into being,'' kusserow said, noting that each is financed almost totally at the community level
he said each of the three should consider developing its own criteria for measuring success and that someone _ perhaps the federal alcohol, drug abuse and mental health administration _ ``might want to ask which one is best.''
kidnappers of a u.s. marine officer serving with the united nations released on monday a videotaped message from the captive in which he pleaded with the u.s. government to meet his captors' demands
lt. col. william r. higgins appeared reading from a statement in the 70-second tape that was released by the organization of the oppressed on earth to a western news agency office in beirut
he wore a dark green sweater and a newly grown beard
i, william higgins, in order to get me released, these demands have to be met,'' said the 43-year-old decorated vietnam veteran and one-time military assistant to former defense secretary caspar weinberger
higgins was abducted near south lebanon's ancient port city of tyre on wednesday. in the videotape, he looked gloomy, but physically fit
higgins said president reagan ``has to take responsibility for the crimes he has committed against the oppressed people in the region.''
he listed the same demands made by his captors when they first claimed his abduction in a statement friday that branded the marine colonel a spy for the ``satanic cia.''
the demands, as listed by higgins, are:
_withdrawal of israeli forces from all occupied territories in lebanon
_the release of all detained lebanese and palestinian mujahedeen, or holy warriors, from the khiam detention camp, in south lebanon, and all jails of ``the zionist regime in occupied palestine.''
_an end to u.s. intervention in lebanon and to u.s. diplomatic missions to the middle east
american universities have awarded more doctorates in education than in any other field over the past two decades, and women outnumber men among the newest ph.d.s, a government study says
education has been the most popular field of choice for doctoral study since 1966,'' said the report by the department of education's center for statistics
the report, based on federal surveys, said that in 1966, education held a narrow lead over the physical sciences as the most popular field of doctoral-level study. of the 18,239 doctorates awarded by u.s. universities that year, 3,063, or 17 percent, were in education, compared to 3,045 in the physical sciences
in 1986, education was still in the no. 1 spot, but by a much wider margin. it accounted for 7,110, or 21 percent, of the 33,653 ph.d.s awarded. the physical sciences again were second with 3,551
but education's share of doctorates peaked in 1977 at 7,960 and has declined steadily since then as fewer men pursued the advanced degree. men outnumbered women four-to-one among the education ph.d.s in 1966. women took the lead in 1983 and outnumbered the men in 1986, 3,795 to 3,315
the 7,110 education ph.d.s in 1986 was the lowest since 1972
the report, ``profile of education doctorates: 1976 to 1986,'' was written by the center's susan t. hill, p. elaine kroe and summer d. whitener
education administration and supervision was the most popular specialty, accounting for 1,622 of the ph.d.'s in 1986. some 787 were in curriculum and instruction, 609 in higher education, 323 in educational psychology and 315 in counseling and personnel services
a total of 1,141 of the ph.d.s were in various subjects or teaching fields, with physical education, health and recreation the most popular (291), followed by reading education (134), music education (94), trade and industrial education (86) and english education (79)
the report said 194 of the 438 doctoral-granting institutions in the united states awarded education ph.d.s in 1986. the top 10 were: temple university, 171; university of pittsburgh, 165; columbia university-teachers college and nova university, both 163; vanderbilt university, 149; michigan state university 139; university of georgia, 129; university of texas-austin, 125; university of maryland-college park, 124; university of massachusetts-amherst, 112
foreign students received 700, or nearly 10 percent of the education doctorates in 1986
gov. richard celeste says he believes the ohio primary election this may will determine the presidential nominees for both the democrats and the republicans
celeste said sunday he thinks the state will play the pivotal role because the may 3 primary will fall at a key time in the nominating process and because of the nature of the state
i think that the ohio primary will determine who the nominee is for each of the parties,'' celeste said in answer to a question at a news conference. ``they (the winners) may not have all the delegates, but i think ... it will be clear that they are going to be the first-ballot choice.''
any nominee understands that to win the general election, they must carry ohio,'' said celeste. ``our state is kind of a fulcrum in the political process, it seems to me.''
celeste said it is too early for him to try to influence the nominating process by endorsing a candidate, but that he may do so prior to the ohio primary
the california republican party has voted to prohibit any endorsement by either the statewide party or any official republican county central committee prior to the gop primary
in a three-day convention, noteworthy principally for the absence of all of the party's presidential candidates who are campaigning in states with ``super tuesday'' primaries on march 8, the only other significant business was adoption of new rules for naming members to the party's governing board
the ban on endorsements sunday was in response to a 1986 court ruling that a state law prohibiting such endorsements violated constitutional free speech guarantees. however, that ruling left the political parties free to adopt any rules they want restricting themselves
contrary to the gop action sunday, the california democratic party is expected to adopt rules permitting pre-primary endorsements at its statewide convention next month
the presidential primary scorecard, in the view of former house speaker thomas p. ``tip'' o'neill, allows for more than one ballot at the democratic convention and division among republicans
in his first public appearance since surgery late last year for rectal cancer and an enlarged prostate, o'neill told a convention crowd of 2,000 on saturday that missouri congressman dick gephardt doesn't have the financing to run a successful race and tennessee sen. albert gore jr. may have waited too late to join the fray
jesse jackson will control a sizable block of votes and make the convention, which o'neill believes ``is going to go more than one ballot, and there are going to be a lot of smoke-filled rooms.''
o'neill backs a fellow massachusetts politician, gov. michael dukakis
on the gop side, o'neill said vice president george bush got his timing back with his win in new hampshire, but senate minority leader bob dole ``has a democratic style and can distance himself from the administration.''
but internal strife may hurt republicans, he told members of the national electrical manufacturers representatives association
here are some comments from political observers about pat robertson in the super tuesday states:
north carolina: merle black, political scientist at the university of north carolina at chapel hill: ``i think bush's biggest competition in the south will come from robertson. he's a big unknown. we don't know how strong he is, but he's likely much stronger here than in new hampshire.''
missouri: gop chairman hillard selck: ``it does not appear to be in the cards for pat robertson to make a strong showing in missouri. he's probably going to pick up a few delegates. but you can't go around the nation and pick up a few delegates here and a few there and expect to win the nomination.''
arkansas: state democratic executive director kip blakely, assessing robertson's support: ``remember the right to life march a couple of weekends ago? it was raining and it was a saturday morning and it was freezing. there were over 3,000 people who turned out. that's pat robertson.''
texas: gop chairman george strake: ``i think he's going to be present and accounted for. he's going to pick up some delegates.''
tennessee: republican chairman jim henry: ``he's going to get 40,000 or 50,000 votes in tennessee. that will probably give him a solid third (behind bush-dole or dole-bush).''
massachusetts: paul cellucci, coordinator for george bush: ``we're not expecting any invisible army. we haven't seen any signs of that, although there is (robertson) support out there. i'm not nervous at this point. new hampshire makes me feel a lot better.''
oklahoma: republican chairman tom cole: ``i think pat robertson causes us a lot fewer problems than jesse jackson causes democrats.''
maryland: former gop chairman allan levey, a bush supporter: ``i think 10 percent would be the top that he (robertson) would get.''
washington: bruce hawkins, robertson's state director: ``new hampshire was actually a positive for our people. they look (at roberton's last place finish) and said, `we will not let that happen here.'''
rhode island: gop chairman j. michael levesque, forecasting a weak robertson showing: ``i have not seen any kind of signal or signs that there is a significantly large evangelical movement in rhode island.''
georgia: former state gop chairman bob bell: ``if those people who are voting for pat robertson stay in the republican column, there's a whole lot of democrats who are going to be out of office.''
louisiana: robertson state director billy e. mccormack, citing a 6 percent jump in republican registration since october: ``we feel like we were responsible for 90 to 95 percent of them.''
florida: rep. david troxler, r-fla., one of the few elected officials supporting robertson: ``i do believe that if he takes a substantial number of super tuesday delegates _ 55 or 60 percent _ he will be the nominee.''
alabama: al lapierre, executive director of the state democratic party, on robertson's claim that the russians have missiles in cuba: ``i don't think it hurts him with his voters. they think it's true.''
kentucky: harold rogers, state chairman for bush, on robertson's support: ``essentially it's still limited to the religious conservatives. i don't see him breaking out beyond that very narrow base, except in spotty cases, here and there.''
mississippi: ed cole, chairman of the mississippi dem party, says: ``i think he's obviously going to be a real strong factor in the republican primary. i think he will wreak havoc on the republican organization in mississippi.'' danger</head>
managers of a federal nuclear plant in south carolina said a recent power-level reduction was ``routine,'' but a published report today says the action came after scientists discovered that safety equations had been wrong for decades
the washington post reported that power levels at the savannah river weapons material plant reactor were reduced following a stormy meeting during which private scientists warned that the reactor was operating beyond the demonstrated capacity of its emergency cooling system
managers of savannah river called the 10 percent reduction in power _ the third reduction in 14 months _ a ``routine'' action reflecting a change in the way reactor temperatures are measured. the reduction dropped the operating level from 1,100 megawatts thermal to 960 megawatts
power had already been reduced from 2,200 megawatts last march when a national academy of sciences panel warned that a severe accident could overpower the reactor's cooling system
the post, quoting sources it did not identify, said the latest reduction feb. 12 was ordered only at the insistence of scientists working for e.i. du pont de nemours &amp; co., doe's contractor at savannah river. the scientists had discovered a fundamental error in the calculations that have been used for decades to justify reactor operating levels, the newspaper said
department of energy officials initially were reluctant to order the reduction because they didn't want to admit they had made a mistake and risk triggering public pressure to close the south carolina facility, the post reported
doe confirmed that the power levels at the l reactor _ one of three government reactors at the savannah river facility and the last energy department facility that produces plutonium _ were reduced feb. 12, the newspaper said
savannah river manager robert l. morgan decided to reduce the levels following a confrontation with the scientists at a feb. 8 meeting during which a top du pont scientist threw his security badge on the table in front of morgan and threatened to ``go public'' unless the power levels were lowered, the post's sources said
morgan blinked,'' one source told the post
an unidentified doe official told the newspaper that the department did not want to ``raise the specter of continuing problems at savannah river.'' office</head>
president reagan says nothing would make him happier during his last year in office than to see all of the american hostages in lebanon freed
i'd like that better than anything else,'' reagan told reporters during a black-tie reception sunday night for the nation's governors. he said the administration is ``doing everything we can and exploring every avenue'' to free marine lt. col. william r. higgins, who was kidnapped wednesday near the ancient port city of tyre, lebanon
it's just so difficult,'' reagan said. ``it is such a terrible situation and you're afraid you'll do something that will harm them (the hostages). we don't know who they (the captors) are or where they are.''
higgins headed a 76-man observer group attached to a u.n. peacekeeping force in south lebanon. there are eight other americans as well as 14 other foreigners missing in lebanon
i just feel anytime a citizen of this country is unjustly denied their constitutional rights, it's the obligation of this government to come to their aid,'' reagan said
then, looking at the reporters, he said, ``i wish you would stop calling them terrorists and start calling them cowards.''
the sister of the longest-held american hostage in lebanon says u.s. officials display a double standard by working hardest to free the most recent captives
peggy say, who has unflinchingly worked for freedom for her brother terry anderson, said reagan administration officials indicated recently that no progress has been made to win his release
i will not stand by and watch somebody else come out while my brother stays behind,'' mrs. say said in an interview broadcast sunday on cbs-tv's ``face the nation.''
anderson, chief middle east correspondent of the associated press, was abducted march 16, 1985. he is among nine americans being held hostage in lebanon, including recent abductee marine lt. col. william r. higgins, who was kidnapped wednesday
mrs. say charged that a double standard exists in which u.s. officials actively tried to locate higgins, but have not been as vigorous in trying to find her brother
she added that the double standard is not new, and she cited u.s. efforts to free americans held hostage in the hijacking of a twa jetliner and the cruise ship achille lauro and the negotiations to win the release of journalist nicholas daniloff, who was arrested by the soviets
she said that during a state department meeting several months ago, she was told that ``their policy was absolute non-negotiations for terry and the others.''
i reminded them that they had told me that before twa and i watched those negotiations,'' she said. ``and then they got back to me and said, now we're back to our old policy, no negotiations. i watched achille lauro and i watched nick daniloff
and i said to them a couple of months ago, i do not intend to stand by again and watch you break that public policy when it is politically expedient for you to do so.''
president reagan said thursday he wants ``to rescue'' higgins, who headed the 75-man observer group attached to the united nations interim force in lebanon, but officials played down the idea of a military mission to gain the officer's release. ever</head>
president corazon aquino, who has weathered coup attempts and other political storms, begins her third year in office thursday more secure in power than at any time during her administration
but many who saw the feb. 22-25, 1986, uprising against president ferdinand marcos as the beginning of a new era in philippine politics are disappointed that dreams of social progress and reform remain unrealized
the coalition that propelled mrs. aquino to power _ reformist soldiers, human rights activists, the church and business groups _ has been shattered in the bickering that followed
two years after marcos' downfall, land reform remains bogged down in congress. human rights groups that once castigated marcos for the abuses of his administration now raise similar charges against the aquino government
during a radio broadcast sunday, mrs. aquino described her first two years in office as ``very difficult.''
i do not describe it as enjoyment,'' she said. ``but definitely it is fulfillment of the highest decree.'' she said improving the economic condition of the filipino people would be her first priority in the coming year
last week, the major topic of manila newspapers was a debate over calls for a ``limited state of emergency,'' raising dark memories of the worst excesses of the marcos era
it appears that the anniversary will confirm the demise of a failed reformist revolution,'' wrote commentator amando doronila in the manila chronicle. ``it will show that the revolution, two years after, is like a crushed ant hill, with its inhabitants scurrying about without direction and in disarray.''
despite the disillusionment, most western and philippine analysts doubt that disgruntled military officers, marcos loyalists or communist rebels can topple the popular 55-year-old widow before her term expires on june 30, 1992
military challenges to the aquino administration reached their high-water mark in august, when mutineers seized media and military installations before being driven off about 15 hours later
the leader of the august attempt, lt. col. gregorio honasan, was arrested in december. ironically, he played a major role in the feb. 22, 1986, military mutiny that triggered the popular uprising mrs. aquino rode to power
most analysts believe that communist rebels appear to lack both the military strength and political following to topple mrs. aquino within the next four years
the question used to be, `will cory make it to 1992?''' said one western analyst who spoke on condition of anonymity. ``now it is, `what will she do in the rest of her term?'''
beyond surviving, the principal achievement of the aquino administration has been the restoration of popular democracy, marked by ratification of a liberal constitution and the elections of senators, congressmen and regional officials
last week, however, senate president jovito salonga noted that there were 700 allegations of fraud in the jan. 18 regional election. he said those who believe real democracy has been restored ``are more obsessed with theory than actual fact.''
prospects for broad social, economic and political reform have been clouded by a $28 billion debt, a cumbersome legislature and political polarization widened by the 19-year-old communist insurgency and the military's rising clout
for much of her term, mrs. aquino faced serious challenges from the military, and she owes her political survival in part to a faction under defense secretary fidel ramos
as chief of staff, ramos held most of the armed forces behind the government and fended off the six coup plots. but social activists fear her reliance on ramos has lessened the government's commitment to reform
the government so far has not prosecuted soldiers for alleged involvement in several widely publicized killings of civilians. nor has it fulfilled mrs. aquino's 1986 campaign promise to abolish the civilian home defense force, a military-backed militia widely accused of human rights abuses
and the government has endorsed formation of about 200 anti-communist vigilante groups, which human rights activists and church groups have accused of widespread abuses
she had one thing which could have put aside these challenges,'' said mariss diokno, a prominent human rights activist. ``and that was the people. instead of turning to the people, she turned to the military to bail her out. that is the tragic element.''
friction between the military and civilian branches burst into the open last week over proposals for the limited state of emergency to deal with communist rebels
brig. gen. honesto isleta, ramos' former spokesman, suggested such a step to deal with the communists. rep. eduardo gutang, a retired general, proposed a national security act similar to those in malaysia and singapore, which allow for detention without charge for 60 days
after criticism from liberal congressmen and the manila press, ramos said there was no need for a state of emergency. but he called for ``tougher laws,'' including a national identity card system, longer detention for suspected rebels and reimposition of the death penalty
sen. rene saguisag, a former presidential spokesman and human rights lawyer, accused the military of ``blackmail,'' and sen. teofisto guingona branded the identity card system as the trappings of a police state
in a page-one commentary sunday, the pro-aquino philippine daily star said the ouster of marcos had given the country ``a new lease on life, a new chance to make dreams ... into realities.''
it added: ``today, all those dreams remain, for the most part, still dreams.''
robert h. reid has been ap chief of bureau in manila since september 1986
motorists paid an average half-cent a gallon less for gasoline during the past two weeks than during the previous two weeks, but prices should rise soon, an analyst says
the average retail price of gasoline fell to 96.12 cents per gallon since the feb. 5 survey of prices at 15,000 gas stations nationwide, trilby lundberg said sunday
as of feb. 19, the average for all grades and types of service including taxes was 96.12 cents, compared with 96.59 cents on feb. 5, ms. lundberg said
average wholesale prices showed virtually no change, meaning a loss in the retail operating margin of more than a half cent, the survey said
that, plus the heavier demand for gasoline in warmer weather will add to existing upward pressure on prices, ms. lundberg said
a u.s. aerospace consulting firm has signed a multiyear agreement to put commercial scientific projects aboard the soviet space station in the first private american deal with the soviet space agency
payload systems inc. of wellsley, mass., in an enterprise approved by the commerce department, will grow protein crystals for u.s. industry with the help of a soviet cosmonaut who will be given only minimal information about the projects, said anthony arrott, company research and development director
payload systems received a two-year government license to contract with the soviets for protein crystallization production experiments aboard the soviet space station mir, which is already in orbit, arrott said in a telephone interview sunday
it's a multiflight, multiyear agreement beginning in 1989,'' he said, adding that part of the agreement includes non-disclosure of the amount to be paid to the soviets who reportedly have offered to carry western experiments for between $10,000 and $15,000 a kilogram
arrott said the agreement was signed with the soviet union's agency for international trade agreements, licensintorg. the civilian space agency, glavkosmos, oversees the space station
a rash of railroad accidents last month should show congress that serious problems remain in the industry since the worst wreck in amtrak history 14 months ago, says federal railroad administrator john riley
equally troubling, riley said, is that the federal government has less power to curtail railroad accidents now than it did when three conrail locomotives slid through a warning signal and collided with an amtrak passenger train near chase, md., on jan. 4, 1987. sixteen people were killed
it's incredible to me that we're sitting here 14 months after the chase accident and not one shred of legislation introduced in the wake of that accident has yet become law,'' riley said during an interview he requested to talk about safety concerns. ``as the months pass, i see the opportunity slipping away from us,'' he said
riley has been lobbying for measures before house-senate conference committees that would permit direct government sanctions against railroad workers for safety violations, and authorize random drug testing
delays in enacting the sanctions measure is ``testimony to the sheer political power of the labor organizations who oppose it,'' riley said. the measure would permit the fra to suspend the operating privilege of railroad conductors or engineers. station</head>
viewers of the cbs affiliate in the washington area, may have had a sense of deja vu when wusa-tv mistakenly began its ``face the nation'' broadcast with last week's preview of the new hampshire primary
commentator lesley stahl started sunday's show with, ``welcome to `face the nation,' this is lesley stahl in new hampshire,'' and spoke of what would happen in last tuesday's primary
the error was not detected until more than five minutes into the show
at that point, republican presidential candidate pat robertson was talking about prophecies concerning the ``forces of evil'' in the world and an embattled israel. the tape was abruptly cut, and the show picked up with this week's broadcast and ms. stahl in mid-sentence asking israeli defense minister yitzhak rabin about israeli forces being out of control in the west bank
diane digit, wusa publicity manager, said as soon as engineers realized they were mistakenly running last week's show, they switched to a tape containing the correct broadcast
high winds whipped through the rockies early today, while light snow fell in the upper midwest and in montana
high wind warnings wer post effect through the morning over southeastern wyoming and northeastern colorado. gale warnings continued along the northern coast of new england as well as over lakes erie and huron
afternoon and evening winds sunday included gusts to 90 mph at boulder, colo., and 77 mph at colorado springs. high wind reports in wyoming included 61 mph at casper, and 65 mph at cody
light snow fell early today across northwestern lower michigan, upper michigan, northeastern minnesota and western montana
one inch of snow fell at broadus, mont., during the 6 hours ending at 1 a.m. est. there were no reports of significant rainfall during the period
temperatures across the northwest were unseasonably warm on sunday. the high temperature of 68 degrees at yakima, wash., broke the 1958 mark for feb. 21 by six degrees
today's forecast called for snow showers from montana across the great lakes; strong, gusty winds from the northern and central plains through the great lakes; clear skies over much of the rest of the nation
highs were expected to reach the 20s and 30s from eastern washington state across montana and northern wyoming, and from the great lakes to new england; 60s and 70s from california through southern arizona and from the southern half of the plains across georgia and florida; 50s and 60s over much of the remainder of the nation
temperatures around the nation at 1 a.m. est ranged from 6 degrees below zero at st. johnsbury, vt., to 62 degrees at key west, fla
other reports:
_east: atlanta 33 fair; boston 16 fair; buffalo 21 fair; charleston s.c. 35 fair; cincinnati 33 cloudy; cleveland 27 windy; detroit 30 windy; miami 56 cloudy; new york 23 fair; philadelphia 22 fair; pittsburgh 20 fair; portland maine 11 fair; washington 22 fair
_central: bismarck 35 windy; chicago 32 windy; dallas-fort worth 53 fair; denver 48 fair; des moines 48 windy; indianapolis 36 cloudy; kansas city 53 windy; minneapolis-st. paul 36 partly cloudy; nashville 34 fair; new orleans 46 fair; st. louis 41 partly cloudy
_west: albuquerque 39 fair; anchorage 5 snow; las vegas 45 fair; los angeles 53 fair; phoenix 57 partly cloudy; salt lake city 36 fair; san diego 55 foggy; san francisco 48 partly cloudy; seattle 39 foggy
_canada: montreal 12 snow; toronto 23 windy
stock prices were higher in london early today, helped by rises in tokyo and new york
at midmorning, the financial times-stock exchange 100-share index was up 8.5 points, or 0.49 percent, at 1,738.3. it opened at 1,732.3, up 2.5 on friday's close
sixty-seven of the 100 major companies comprising the index were showing gains in early trading, eight were showing losses and the remainder were unchanged
the early trend followed gains in new york on friday, where the dow jones industrial average rose 28.18 to 2,014.59, and a rise overnight in tokyo, where the nikkei index climbed 77.30 to 24,846.71
aids and lasers top the list of issues as thousands of dentists gathered for the 123rd midwinter meeting of the chicago dental society
only a few dentists now use lasers as surgical tools to remove lesions and damaged soft tissue from around gums. but experts predict dentists will soon use lasers to do everything from fitting crowns to drilling cavities, said harvey wigdor, chief of dental service at ravenswood hospital medical center
the four-day conference, which started sunday, is expected to attract 27,000 dentists and technicians from 26 countries
aids poses challenges because of the small chance of dentists' contracting it from patients and the difficulty of treating symptoms of the disease, said dr. sol silverman, chairman of oral medicine at the university of california, san francisco
silverman said he will urge dentists to wear gloves to protect themselves from contracting aids from patients. he said he would impress upon them they are legally and morally obligated to treat people with aids
only one dentist is believed to have contracted aids by treating patients with the deadly virus without taking the proper percautions. another dentist has tested positive for antibodies to the virus, but has not yet shown symptoms of acquired immune deficiency syndrome, silverman said
the risk of contracting the virus is very, very low _ but why take the chance?'' he said
aids patients develop many symptoms that must be treated by a dentist, such as mouth lesions, ulcers, fungus and other lumps and bumps, he said
silverman said he will instruct dentists how to treat these problems and give them information on how to refer the aids patients if the dentist can not handle treatment
he said he would instruct dentists how to spot early symptoms of aids and how to refer them for additional medical assistance
a french dentist, francois duret of marseilles university, was scheduled to present his new computerized laser systems, which may revolutionize current procedures for crowns and bridges, dental society spokesman allen rafalson said
doctors discussed the future uses of lasers at preconference workshops at ravenswood hospital saturday
lasers offer the advantages of being bloodless, very clean and causing less post-treatment pain, he said
david harris of the wenske laser center said his laboratory is trying to develop a laser drill ``to get rid of the noise and vibration ... that patients find so adverse'' when they are having cavities drilled
the high cost of laser equipment _ $20,000 to $25,000 _ prevents most individual dentists from purchasing it, widgor said
but widgor and harris, who helped organize the workshops, said prices are expected to drop dramatically in the next few years to an affordable level
a moderate earthquake shook central california, jarring residents awake as it sent dishes rattling and house beams creaking but caused no injuries or major damage, officials said
the quake, measuring 3.9 on the richter scale, hit at 11:43 p.m. sunday, and was centered about 40 miles west-northwest of bakersfield, said robert finn, spokesman for the california institute of technology's seismology laboratory in pasadena
shaking was felt over a broad area in kern and san luis obispo counties, and as far north as paso robles, about 75 miles away
it rattled some dishes and caused some attic beams to creak, but after the initial fright, most of our callers settled right down,'' said san luis obispo county sheriff's sgt. gary hogan
we've had about a dozen calls, spread out over about 40 miles,'' hogan said. ``it woke people up, but there weren't any reports of injury or damage.''
residents in bakersfield and nearby taft felt the ground shake, but taft police officers said they barely noticed the temblor
the richter scale is a measure of ground motion as recorded on seismographs. an earthquake of 3.5 on the open-ended scale can cause slight damage in the local area, 4 moderate damage, 5 considerable damage, 6 severe damage
passengers and crew members on a china airlines flight today prevented a taiwanese man from hijacking the plane to beijing by hitting him over the head and wrestling him to the floor, the airline said
the boeing 737 jetliner was carrying 114 people, including one american, on a flight from taipei to the southern port city of kaohsiung, 240 miles away, when the hijack attempt by the 29-year-old man occurred
the man, an employee at a knife grinding shop, was carrying two fake grenades made of wood and a slip of paper from a fortuneteller predicting a year of bad luck, the airline said at a news conference
according to the airline, the would-be hijacker was subdued after a crew member hit him on the head with a ``hard object.''
no injuries were reported among the other 106 passengers and seven crew members aboard the jetliner. the plane landed at kaohsiung and later returned to taipei where members of the cabin crew appeared at a press conference
stewardess lee lin said she was passing out drinks to the passengers about 20 minutes after takeoff when the would-be hijacker, chien chu-yuan, handed her a slip of paper demanding the plane be diverted to beijing
he threatened on the slip of paper that he would kill all of us with his two grenades if we didn't fly to beijing,'' she said. the man later said he wanted to go to taipei, but crew members said he was nervous and probably meant beijing. the would-be hijacker claimed to have two partners, but the airline has ruled out that possibility
the stewardess asked four stewards for help as most passengers remained unaware of the unfolding drama. the stewards and a few passengers then pounced on the hijacker when he tried to show the phony grenades to the passengers and subdued him after a 10-minute scuffle
we asked the captain to fly in circles and told the hijacker we would divert to beijing,'' said steward chi hsi-an
police said the would-be hijacker, a native taiwanese who worked in his brother's knife grinding shop, was in custody in kaohsuing. attempted hijacking can carry the death sentence in taiwan
officials were unsure how many foreigners were aboard the plane besides the one american. among the passengers was yu chen yueh-ying, the kaohsiung county magistrate who is an opposition member
in 1985, an attempted hijacking occurred aboard a china airlines' boeing 737 flying the same route with 107 passengers. in that incident, a homesick army sergeant who wanted to see his parents was overpowered by crew members after he seized a stewardess
soviet president andrei gromyko says he rebuffed mao tse-tung's proposal that the soviet union help lure u.s. troops into china where they would be attacked by nuclear weapons, a newspaper reported today
gromyko's two-volume memoir covers nearly 50 years of soviet diplomacy, including dealings with nine american presidents, according to the new york times, which said an advance copy was made available to its moscow bureau
in ``memoir,'' expected to be distributed to bookstores in the next few weeks by its soviet publisher, gromyko says mao's proposal came during a secret visit to beijing in august 1958
gromyko, soviet foreign minister from 1957 to 1985, said he was surprised by the audacity of the plan, according to the times
the scenario of war described by you cannot meet a positive response by us,'' gromyko said he told mao. ``i can say this with certainty.''
gromyko, 78, wrote that mao was anticipating an american attack on china because of tensions over the islands of quemoy and matsu, off mainland china
mao said chinese forces would retreat to the heartland of china, luring american soldiers after them. then, mao proposed, ``the soviet union should catch them with all its means,'' gromyko wrote
at the time, china was expecting to receive nuclear weapons from the soviet union, but moscow withdrew their offer in 1959. soviet officials later accused mao of recklessness. china exploded its own nuclear bomb in 1964
gromyko denies reports that he misled president kennedy about the presence of soviet missiles in cuba during the 1962 missile crisis
in spite of several allegations circulating in the west, not once in the whole course of the conversation did kennedy raise the question of the presence of soviet missiles in cuba,'' he wrote
consequently, i did not have to answer whether or not there were such weapons in cuba.''
gromyko, who dealt with every u.s. president from franklin d. roosevelt to ronald reagan reserved special praise for roosevelt
he describes roosevelt as someone ``who knew how to conduct conversation freely, without any tension,'' and a leader who knew how to make and carry out policy
he also described meetings with american stars such as marilyn monroe, whom he met during a hollywood reception for soviet officials in 1959. he said they exchanged a few words, and he recalled her ``special and indescribable attractiveness.''
every year the chamber of commerce manages to find volunteers to taste more than 100 bottles of homemade wine for the newport wine and seafood festival
it's hard work, some of the 27 volunteer judges tapped this year said over the weekend
we taste a lot of different wines and try to decide, try to be objective,'' opal white said. ``we don't want to say anything bad about them, but some of them ....'' she trailed off, perhaps not wishing to leave a bitter aftertaste
since wine can be made from nearly anything organic, some of the entries are, well, unusual. garlic, dried kiwi fruit, rose petals, zucchini and even sauerkraut have found their way into bottles during past competitions
a little sauerkraut wine is good on a cold night,'' judge joseph swafford said dryly
stomach aches are unlikely, since the rules say the judges are supposed to sniff, swirl, taste and spit. still, the volunteer judges must sign a waiver releasing the chamber from any blame should they be struck with a sudden illness, and nobody else is allowed the taste the amateur wines that are displayed at the festival
the festival, which opened friday and runs through feb. 28, allows the public to taste commercial wines, and compare their choices with results from a panel of professional judges
whales are coming to lake michigan
the shedd aquarium says its oceanarium, a $43 million expansion project that should be completed by 1990, will exhibit six whales, four dolphins, several sea otters and a rookery of penguins
the oceanarium design calls for huge rocks, cliffs and 35-foot trees on 1.8 acres of what was lake michigan before 30 million gallons of water was siphoned so construction could begin below lake level in august
to give the illusion the whales are in the ocean, a 600-foot-long 35-foot-high picture window will overlook the lake from behind their tanks
i've got a gut feeling that we might even have to turn people away,'' aquarium director william p. braker said recently as cranes pounded 75-foot-long steel pilings for the foundation. ``we had 1.1 million visitors in 1987, and with the oceanarium, i think we may hit 2 million.''
three milk-white, 15-foot beluga whales will be airlifted from churchill, manitoba on the hudson bay, aquarium officials said. as whales go, manitobas are small, but the largest animal now at shedd is a 7-foot nurse shark
three more pacific black whales, about the size of manitobas, will be brought from japan, the aquarium staff said
braker said shedd, which opened in 1929 and is the world's largest indoor aquarium at 230,000 square feet, ``needed a good shot in the arm to bring it out of many years of being static.''
money for the oceanarium includes $5 million each from the state and the chicago park district. the aquarium has spent $8 million and hopes to raise the remainder of the $25 million price tag through donations
the dollar drifted lower against most major currencies in light european trading early today. gold prices rose after dipping in hong kong
traders attributed the dollar's weakness to general bearish sentiment fueled by uncertainty over the state of the u.s. economy
the dollar's short-term trend is definitely down,'' said a senior trader in milan, italy. ``some people might like to see the dollar rise, but what fresh news is there to support it?''
a trader in frankfurt, west germany, said the dollar had been boosted by a narrowing of the u.s. trade deficit, but ``you can't hang on the trade data only _ you need something else to chew on.''
midmorning dollar rates in europe compared with late rates friday:
_ 1.7020 west german marks, down from 1.7075
_ 1.3938 swiss francs, down from 1.3985
_ 5.7533 french francs, down from 5.7675
_ 1.9117 dutch guilders, down from 1.9150
_ 1,253.25 italian lire, down from 1,257.75
_ 1.2715 canadian dollars, up from 1.2702
the british pound rose to $1.7560 from $1.7505
the dollar fell in tokyo, closing at 129.95 japanese yen, down from friday's close of 130.53 yen. in london trading later today, the dollar slipped to 129.63 yen
london's major bullion dealers fixed a recommended gold price at midmorning of $445.10 a troy ounce, up from $442.90. a trader attributed the rise to the dollar's weakness, but said the market was thin
gold traded at a bid of $444.75 in zurich, up from $443
earlier, the metal closed in hong hong at a bid of $447.12, down from saturday's $447.51
silver bullion traded in london at a bid of $6.38 a troy ounce, up 1 cent from late friday
police clashed with about 100 separatist demonstrators today at a hospital construction site, and authorities said 10 officers were injured and a dozen were taken hostage in the melee
philippe berges, chief of staff at the high commission, said the protesters at poindimie on the east side of the south pacific island were demanding a halt to work on the site. the work began friday
there will be no negotiations until the gendarmes have been freed,'' berges said
he said the team of gendarmes, a police force under military direction, showed great restraint by not firing their weapons when they were attacked with stones and sticks
the gendarmes fired tear gas grenades to get free of the demonstrators, but some of the officers were captured and disarmed
berges said reinforcements were being sent to the scene, where melanesian supporters of the kanak socialist national liberation front, known by its french initials flnks, are opposed to building of the hospital on what they say is land belonging to the tieti tribe
new caledonia, a french overseas territory of 145,000 people about 1,100 miles east of australia, voted against independence in a referendum last september
the indigenous melanesians make up 42.6 percent of the population, europeans 37.1 percent and other nationalites the rest. dropped word `was.' no pms separates moved.</note>
mildred seydell, a globe-trotting journalist who interviewed benito mussolini and covered the scopes ``monkey trial,'' died saturday. she was 98
ms. seydell, a resident of suburban roswell, once said she ``much preferred to set the stage for adventure rather than the table for dinner.''
her work as a writer and columnist for hearst publications, including the now-defunct atlanta georgian newspaper, took her around the world
she wrote ``talks with celebrities,'' including an interview with the italian dictator mussolini, for universal news service and 27 hearst papers
she also covered for hearst the 1925 tennessee trial of john scopes, a teacher indicted for illegally teaching the theory of evolution
ms. seydell was a columnist for the atlanta georgian from 1926 to 1939, the year the paper closed
she was born mildred woolley and in 1910 married paul seydel, a chemist she met while studying at the sorbonne in paris. she added an ``l'' to seydel and used the name professionally
william claiborne ``red'' hayes jr., the nasa official who greeted astronaut john glenn after his history-making flight in 1962, died saturday. he was 63
hayes, who spent 27 years with the national aeronautics and space administration, directed the at-sea recovery efforts that plucked astronauts from the ocean after their space capsules had returned to earth
when glenn was brought aboard an aircraft carrier after america's first manned orbital flight, hayes was the first to shake his hand
hayes joined the national advisory committee on aeronautics in 1952 and was there when nasa was organized a few years later
hayes directed the recovery of astronauts glenn, scott carpenter, walter schirra and gus grissom. he retired in 1979
makoto miike, the eldest member of japan's house of councilors, died saturday. he was 87
miike had been a member of the upper house of the governing liberal democratic party since 1986
he was first elected to the house of representatives, the lower house, in 1949 and was postal and telecommunciations minister in 1972 in the government of prime minister kakuei tanaka
jim woods, a major-league baseball announcer for six clubs during a 26-year career, died saturday. he was 71
he began his big-league career with the new york yankees in 1953 as mel allen's partner. he also worked with the old new york giants, pittsburgh pirates, st. louis cardinals, oakland a's and boston red sox
woods left the red sox after the 1978 season and worked for the usa network on cable television before retiring
artist isabel bishop, a painter and printmaker, has died of parkinson's disease at age 85
bishop, who died friday at her home in the riverdale section of the bronx, was known for her work depicting the everyday activities of american women and for showing life as it existed around union square in 1930
miss bishop studied at the arts students league, and began her long series of union square paintings shortly after leaving the league in 1924. she joined manhattan's midtown gallery in 1932, and remained affiliated with it for the rest of her life
miss bishop is survived by a son, remsen wolff, and two granddaughters. charges</head>
family members denied published reports the exiled eldest son of the late president gamal abdel nasser will return home to face charges that he participated in attacks on israeli and american diplomats
an opposition weekly, sawt-el-arab, on sunday quoted the fugitive, khaled abdel nasser, as saying he planned to return from exile in yugoslavia to stand trial. if convicted, he could face the death penalty
the state-run newspaper al-akhbar reported today that entry points in egypt were placed on alert for the possible return of khaled. al-akhbar also said ahmad el-khawaga, a defense attorney and head of the egyptian bar association, had flown to belgrade, yugoslavia, seeking to bring back khaled
cairo's newspapers said authorities in yugoslavia, where khaled obtained political asylum, were notified through interpol that he is a fugitive
however, a member of the nasser family, who spoke today with the associated press on condition of anonymity, said khaled has no intention of coming home to face trial. another family member, khaled's brother-in-law ashraf marawan, also reportedly said the defendant refuses to come home
khaled, 38, is one of 11 defendants charged in connection with four shooting attacks in cairo between 1984 and 1987 that killed two israelis and wounded six israelis and two americans
nine other defendants, including gamal shawky abdel nasser, a nephew of the late president who also is at large, are charged with lesser crimes in connection with the alleged conspiracy
in announcing the charges last week, government officials said all defendants except the nassers were in custody or free on bail
sources close to the fugitives told the associated press the two were advised early in the investigation to leave egypt, apparently to avoid the embarrassment to the government of having to arrest close relatives of a man still adored in much of the arab world
khaled abdel nasser's name has been placed on the list of (people) expected to return to egyptian airports and ports,'' al-akhbar reported
it said el-khawaga, the attorney, hoped to persuade nasser in belgrade to turn himself in to egyptian authorities. el-khawaga's office confirmed the attorney's departure but gave no details
although egypt and yugoslavia have no extradition treaty, al-akhbar speculated that egypt will use diplomatic channels to extradite khaled
the nasserite weekly sawt-el-arab claimed sunday that khaled said in a telephone conversation from belgrade that ``i have faith in the egyptian judiciary system'' and would return when the trial begins
a trial date has not yet been set
teen-agers dressed in punk fashions were among more than 1,000 mourners who packed a church for the funeral of four family members who police believe were hacked to death with an ax by a 16-year-old son
two bishops, nine priests and a monsignor presided over a 90-minute mass sunday at pax christi catholic church for bernard and paulette brom and two of their children, 11-year-old rick and 14-year-old diane
david brom, a high school sophomore described as a gentle boy who wrote poetry but who also favored hard-core punk music, was charged with murder friday in the deaths of his parents and younger brother and sister
we have no idea what all these things can mean,'' said the rev. syl brown, pax christi's pastor. ``they have left so many memories,'' he said of the broms, active members of the church
we come here with a spirit of absolute loss. we have no idea what response we can make. but we can see the light their lives has given us,'' he said
the service included readings by classmates of diane and rick, and presentations of symbolic gifts. among the gifts was a high school basketball trophy given in memory of diane, who had been a cheerleader for her school's basketball team
a special section was set aside for teen-agers, including a few with hair dyed black, gold or purple
after the service, about 100 people braved a raw wind at calvary cemetery for the burial. the family's oldest son, joseph, 19, appeared stoic at the graveside. joseph, who did not live with his family, has asked to be appointed guardian of david
authorities have not yet determined a motive for the slayings. sheriff charles von wald has said he understands that david had argued recently with his father about a music cassette. the rev. jack krough, chaplain at rochester lourdes high school, said friends had recently heard david muse about wanting to hurt his family
a favorite of david's, according to one friend, is the group suicidal tendencies. a song on their latest album describes ``the maniac i'll meet. his love for me is like a father to a son. and now the maniac and i are one.''
other friends said the teen-ager was always ready with a joke and a smile, and ``wouldn't step on a flower.''
at lourdes high school, teachers and psychologists are monitoring david's classmates for signs of depression
the difficult time is yet to come,'' said dennis l. gannon, a licensed psychologist who interviewed about 50 of david's classmates
some will sink into depression in 15 to 20 days, he said. some will withdraw, while others will become unruly and irritable. some will pull out of the depression in a few days, while others may sink deeper
some of them will have a difficult time working this through,'' gannon said. ``they'll say things like, `what's the use, what's the point of going on?'''
a 5-year-old german shepherd with a fondness for ferreting out fungi was named france's champion truffle sniffer for 1988, nosing out 14 other dogs
ulmer, one of three entrants belonging to jerome and paulette tedesco of cahors, unearthed six hidden truffles in a minute and 22 seconds in sunday's contest at grammont outside the southern french city of montpellier
the tedescos' other two german shepherds, oscar and chico, finished third and fourth in the 15th annual competition
truffles, an expensive delicacy, are fleshy, potato-shaped fungi which grow underground near the roots of trees. they are found by dogs and hogs, which are able to sniff them out
jurors have recommended that a man whose death sentence was overturned should be resentenced to die, in spite of character witness testimony by other death row inmates who described him as generous and caring
james ernest hitchcock, 31, was convicted and sentenced to death in 1977 for the rape-murder of his 13-year-old stepniece. the u.s. supreme court overturned his sentence last april
after a three-day resentencing trial, jurors voted 7-5 saturday to recommend that hitchcock be executed for the crime
circuit judge gary formet sr. is not required to follow the jury's recommendation in his decision, which will be announced wednesday
although hitchcock confessed to the slaying shortly after his arrest in july 1976, he later recanted and blamed the killing on his older brother, richard, who james said had become enraged when he caught the defendant and victim having sex
hitchcock testified saturday he confessed to the slaying because ``i thought i was doing the right thing for my brother. ... i loved him. i covered it up.''
richard hitchcock, 38, denied the accusation last week as he did 11 years ago, when cynthia driggers died. he was not charged in his stepdaughter's death
the resentencing jury also heard testimony friday from eight convicted killers, who portrayed hitchcock as a model prisoner, a peacemaker, teacher and generous person who should be spared from the electric chair
they said hitchcock taught them to read and write, broke up fights and loaned them money for tennis shoes and cigarettes
ernie doesn't belong there,'' said death row inmate james chandler. ``he's trying to help people ... he doesn't need to die.''
veteran actor jimmy stewart was honored with a lifetime achievement award by the monterey film festival at a dinner that drew a galaxy of stars and a letter from president reagan
actor clint eastwood, the mayor of nearby carmel, presented stewart with the award sunday night at the $150-a-plate, black-tie affair that ended the three-day festival
several of his leading ladies, among them doris day and joan fontaine, were on hand as a tribute to stewart, who turns 80 on may 20
also attending were actresses katherine ross and sue ann langdon, actor tab hunter and last year's film festival honoree cliff robertson
letters were read from reagan, a former actor, who said that stewart's name on a marquee was ``an iron-clad guarantee of quality,'' and gov. george deukmejian, who said that stewart ``lifted the spirits of young and old alike.''
stewart looked fit during his visit to the monterey peninsula, though he admitted at a news conference sunday afternoon that he is having a hard time hearing
you'd all better speak up,'' he said with a smile
of his career, stewart said he is grateful he was able to play so many different roles. ``i had all sorts of parts,'' he said. ``comedy, westerns, the serious and thought-provoking.''
stewart, the star of such classics as ``it's a wonderful life'' and ``mr. smith goes to washington,'' was asked what he thought of computer colorization of his old black and white films
colorization is one of the most disgraceful things that ever happened in any endeavor in this country,'' he said. ``i hope the people who perpetrate this on others go flat broke someday soon
the actors end up with orange faces. the cameraman took all this time, all this time to create depth and to cast the right shadows. with colorization, people just walk around, just walk around like painted easter eggs.'' services, renewed clashes, no pickup. changes byline.</note>
palestinians today held memorial services for the 61 arabs killed by israelis in anti-occupation violence, and israel's attorney general ruled soldiers could not use force to punish or humiliate protesters
also today, hospital officials said a 14-year-old arab boy was wounded in the thigh in the gaza strip
the army reported an arab was arrested after trying to attack an israeli soldier with a knife in the west bank town of ramallah. it was the third such attack on soldiers in four days
leaflets distributed by underground palestinian groups in the occupied territories called for demonstrations this week _ beginning with memorial services on ``martyrs day'' today _ to protest the visit to israel by secretary of state george p. shultz
army officials said the five-day visit, scheduled to start thursday, might prompt an escalation in violence in the west bank and gaza strip. ``it's not organized or systematic, but outside events like the shultz visit do affect the situation,'' an army spokeswoman said. she spoke on condition of anonymity
attorney general yosef harish sent a letter to defense minister yitzhak rabin saying soldiers may not use force as a means of punishment or humiliation, israel radio reported
orders that call for such use of force are illegal, ruled harish, who demanded rabin issue appropriate instructions to the troops. harish said many palestinians have complained to him about abuse by soldiers
in an army survey, 65 percent of soldiers questioned said they had witnessed rough treatment of palestinians by troops, said the army's chief psychologist, col. shlomo dover. the radio did not say how many soldiers were questioned
dover said 70 percent felt angry and frustrated by the situation in the occupied lands and said they thought using the army to break up civilian protests damages its effectiveness to fight a war
dover told israel radio that 92 percent of the soldiers questioned expressed full trust in their commanders
we don't have problems with the motivation of soliders ... not that they rejoice to do it, but it's an assignment that has been given to the army and that's how it is seen by the soldiers,'' he said
since the wave of protests began dec. 8 in the territories israel seized in the 1967 middle east war, israelis have killed 61 palestinians. the latest fatalities were two men shot and killed by soldiers sunday
the government has spent $330 million, or 1 percent of the government's 1988 budget, in an attempt to quell the violence
in one memorial services today, women marched to a cemetery in the west bank village of anabta to honor three residents who died in clashes with the army earlier this month
a molotov cocktail was thrown at an israeli car in the west bank town of ramallah, but no one was injured, the army said
in the gaza strip refugee camp of jabaliya, soldiers clashed with protesters, and a 14-year-old boy was shot in the thigh, doctors at gaza city's shifa hospital said
in gaza city, anti-american slogans painted in red on closed store shutters read: ``no to the shultz visit. yes to the palestinian government. yes to the plo.''
the palestine liberation organization has ordered palestinians in the west bank and gaza strip not to meet with shultz, saying he is pro-israeli and has rejected minimal palestinian demands
but local palestinian leaders said today that they were trying to persuade plo chief yasser arafat to lift the ban. u.s. officials met with several palestinian representatives over the weekend to discuss the shultz visit
during his visit, shultz will present to israeli leaders a u.s. peace initiative calling for an international forum for direct talks on palestinian self-rule and negotiations on a final settlement by december
but prime minister yitzhak shamir told european jewish leaders sunday night he objected to the hurried pace: ``any attempt to force the pace and shorten the period (of self-rule) would be a detriment to the very essence of the agreement.''
he also indicated he would not give in to pressure to accept the american plan: ``when the time comes for decisions, we shall decide on the basis of what is in our national interests.'' him'</head>
relatives of a man whose decomposed body was found about three weeks after his death apparently were convinced that he was still alive, officials said
i understand they were seeing a voodoo man,'' pickens county coroner herbert latham said of the deceased man and his relatives
pickens county sheriff david abston identified the dead man as jessie james latham, 42, not related to the coroner
the body was discovered in a bedroom in a mobile home wednesday by county health workers, authorities said. the coroner said the man had been dead about three weeks
he was pretty well decomposed at the time and the odor all around the trailer was pretty strong,'' abston said. ``some of the kids playing in the yard were wearing face masks, like in an operating room.''
the coroner said the dead man's relatives ``tried to convince me that he was still alive, that god was dealing with him, that he was fine.''
this was a weird case,'' he said sunday, a day after the body was buried
the coroner said that although no foul play was suspected, he was awaiting hospital records from new york, where latham had received some treatment, before announcing the cause of death
the coroner said latham apparently was aware he was suffering from a fatal disease. the autopsy did not reveal the exact disease, he said
abston said latham returned to alabama recently from new york, and was picked up at the tuscaloosa airport by his sister, catherine latham, who took him to a motel in reform. the two stayed there for two weeks
dilip bhakta, the motel manager, said he never saw latham, but asked latham's sister to leave the motel feb. 2 ``because of the smell.''
she never would let anyone come in the room and would meet our maids at the door to get materials,'' bhakta said
bhakta said the odor ``was very strong, very offensive'' and that there were several complaints from other guests
ms. latham said she took her brother to a man in hale county who told him to drink goat's milk with some pills he gave him. she said she took her brother to the mobile home on feb. 2
the nine occupants of the trailer included two infants and several teen-agers, the coroner said
ms. latham dismissed the claim that her brother was treated by a ``voodoo doctor.''
abston said she told him that her brother was alive when he was moved and did not die until the day authorities found his body
l.c. keasler, director of the pickens county department of human resources, said agency workers went to the trailer feb. 14 after an anonymous tip, but were refused entrance. the agency workers returned wednesday with police
asked if any supernatural elements or voodoo were involved in latham's treatment, his sister told the tuscaloosa news on saturday: ``i don't like to use that word. i'm not working for the devil _ i work for god
all i could do was minister to him. he's in god's hands now.''
now that the new york post has been saved, readers and employees wonder what the nation's oldest continuously published newspaper will look like under the new owner, and whether he'll stop its money-losing ways
peter kalikow, who is buying the tabloid from rupert murdoch for $37.6 million, spent sunday talking with advisers about what direction to take the post
the paper's 10 unions agreed saturday to $22 million in concessions that murdoch and kalikow said were necessary to keep the paper alive. that includes eliminating 130 of the post's 1,200 jobs
kalikow is widely thought to want to back away from the paper's emphasis on stories of sex, crime and scandal
it will remain a tabloid, but ``there will be a change in format,'' said his spokesman, howard rubenstein. ``there'll be changes in headlines, in the front page, in the emphasis of the paper.''
but, rubenstein added, kalikow ``still wants it to be feisty and provocative.''
murdoch bought the paper in 1976 and fashioned it after the british tabloids. soon readers were seeing such headlines as ``headless body in topless bar,'' which ran above a story about a homicide in a tavern
they saw a photo of prince rainier of monaco looking into, and making an obscene hand gesture at, a post photographer's lens. the caption read: ``the prince gives us the finger.''
and then there was the story about libyan leader moammar gadhafi's reported psychological problems, featuring a photograph doctored to show readers what he would look like dressed as a woman, complete with lipstick and earrings
kalikow, a real estate developer and businessman worth an estimated $500 million, has approved a $2 million promotional campaign for the newspaper, said rubenstein
according to his agreement with murdoch, kalikow promised to keep the post in operation for at least one year after he takes over march 7
the post lost about $17 million before taxes last year, and about a quarter of its advertising in the last few months. its circulation has dropped from 700,000 to 500,000, partly because of a retrenchment in areas outside metropolitan new york
a $1 million marketing study commissioned by kalikow ``shows the paper already appeals to a fairly well-to-do audience,'' rubenstein said. clarify that hezbollah is also shiite. picks up 8th graf, `the demands, ... '' subs 26th graf, `unifil units ...,' with 3 grafs to update with plo saying it also looking for higgins. picks up 27th graf, `higgins was ...' edits to tighten thruout.</note>
a pro-iranian extremist group today released a videotaped message from a kidnapped u.s. marine colonel calling on president reagan to meet his captors' demands
the 70-second tape from the organization of the oppressed on earth was accompanied by a typewritten arabic statement reiterating the group's claim that the hostage, lt. col. william r. higgins, is a cia agent
the arabic statement also warned lebanon's mainstream shiite moslem militia, amal, to stop searching for higgins, 43, of danville, ky., who was abducted wednesday near the southern port city of tyre
amal, which continued its search today, has taken into custody dozens of members of hezbollah, lebanon's most radical shiite group. hezbollah, which is believed to be the umbrella organization for pro-iranian groups holding most of the 24 foreign hostages in lebanon, on sunday declared support for higgins' captors
hezbollah and amal militimen clashed in a brief firefight sunday. no casualties were reported in the half-hour shootout in the southeastern village of ein el-tineh
in the videotape delivered today to a western news agency in beirut, an unshaven higgins appears to be reading from a statement. the statement by higgins says reagan ``has to take responsibility for the crimes he has committed against the oppressed people in the region.''
in the statement, higgins then lists the same demands his captors made when they first claimed his abduction friday in a statement that called the colonel a cia spy. u.s. and u.n. officials denied the spying charge
the demands, as given by higgins, are:
_israel's withdrawal from the self-proclaimed security zone it carved out in southern lebanon when the bulk of its army withdrew from lebanon in 1985, ending a three-year invasion
_the release of all detained lebanese and palestinian ``mujahedeen,'' or holy warriors, from the khiam detention camp in the security zone and in israeli jails. an estimated 300 detainees are believed held at khiam
_an end to what they call u.s. intervention in lebanon and to u.s. diplomatic missions to the middle east
secretary of state george p. shultz is to travel to the region this week to present a peace plan aimed at ending 10 weeks of rioting by palestinians in the occupied west bank and gaza strip
the statement accompanying the videotape calls on justice minister nabih berri's amal militia to call off its search for higgins in southern lebanon
we call on our brethren in amal to understand the dangerous espionage role higgins was carrying out, profiting from the u.n. observer role,'' the statement says. in an earlier statement given to a beirut newspaper, the group said it was ``lying in wait for any other suspicious american.''
a decorated vietnam veteran and one-time assistant to former defense secretary caspar weinberger, higgins heads a 76-man observer group attached to a u.n. peacekeeping force in south lebanon
his abduction has stirred tension between amal and hezbollah, which has been challenging amal's dominance in southern lebanon
amal has rejected the kidnappers' charge that higgins is a spy, saying in a statement that most abductions by extremist shiite factions in lebanon were motivated by a desire to extract ransoms
in washington, reagan on sunday night said, ``we're doing everything we can and exploring every avenue'' to free higgins
higgins' abduction prompted the u.n.'s interim forces in lebanon, or unifil, to withdraw 20 observers to its headquarters in naqoura, near the israel-lebanon border, said timor goksel, spokesman for unifil
the rest of the observer group, which is required to be unarmed, remained sunday in positions overlooking beirut's green line, which divides the city into moslem and christian sectors, he said
the palestine liberation organization meanwhile declared it was working for higgins' release
in an interview today in tunisia, plo leader yasser arafat said he had given instructions to his colleagues in lebanon to contact the kidnappers
in general i can say it was one of the fanatic lebanese groups'' that was responsible for the abduction, he said on cbs-tv's ``this morning.''
higgins was the third u.n. official abducted in south lebanon in three weeks. jan stening, 44, of sweden and willian jorgensen, 58, of norway, both employees of the u.n. relief and works agency that cares for palestinian refugees, were kidnapped feb. 5 about 25 miles north of tyre
there are 22 other foreigners missing in lebanon, including eight americans, four frenchmen, three britons, two west germans, an irishman, an italian, an indian and two unidentified men
the longest held is american terry anderson, chief middle east correspondent for the associated press. he was kidnapped march 16, 1985
at least a fifth of the nation's parents would refuse to send their children to school if a classmate contracted aids, according to a survey by louis harris and associates
the poll, conducted for children magazine, also found more than half of the parents would want to know the identity of young aids victims in their community, and all but 6 percent believe schools should educate youngsters about the deadly disease
the pollsters surveyed 411 parents with children 3 to 18 years old between oct. 23 and oct. 25. the survey has a margin of error of plus or minus 3 percentage points
according to the poll, 21 percent of parents would keep their children home if a classmate contracted acquired immune defeciency syndrome; 66 percent would allow their youngsters to continue attending classes; and 12 percent were uncertain or would need to weigh the circumstances to decide
experts with the federal centers for disease control insist aids is not transmitted through casual contact but through sex, contaminated blood products and tainted hypodermic needles, and infected pregnant women can give it to their fetus
but a few cases, including a child in pennsylvania's rural monroe county, have no easily explained source for the virus, which destroys the body's ability to fight infection
scientifically, you could not make the statement that it would be impossible to contact aids from casual contact with a classmate,'' said lester lave, a professor of economics at carnegie-mellon university in pittsburgh and past president of the society of risk analysis
but it seems extremely unlikely. we lose kids every year in school bus accidents. we haven't lost any kids from a casual contact with aids,'' he said
the survey also found that 56 percent would want to know the identity of aids victims enrolled in school, while 39 percent believe the information should remain confidential, as required by federal law
parents believe the special nature of the disease requires extraordinary steps on the part of school districts
according to the survey, 94 percent of the parents say schools need to educate teachers and students about the disease, even if no one in the district has contracted aids
i think that's a virtual mandate for schools to get information out for teachers and students to understand,'' said michael r. kagay, vice president of the harris organization
currently, 17 states require aids education in public schools
the figures from various parts of the country differ
in the west, 74 percent of the parents would allow their children to attend school with an aids victim; in the midwest, the figure is 70 percent; and in the east the percentage drops to 60 percent
kagay believes the concentration of the disease in large cities, particularly on the east coast, accounts for the difference
what you are seeing here is the nearness of the threat,'' kagay said. ``so the stronger the threat or the closer to home, the more reluctant parents may be to send their kids to school.''
official estimates of the number of children with aids vary from 300 to 500, according to the magazine. but dr. james oleske of children's hospital in new jersey in newark believes up to 3,000 children now carry the virus and half suffer from the disease. to imports, sted exports. picks up 4th graf, `in that .. .'</note>
official corruption linked to the drug trade is spreading around latin america, giving an anxious edge to longstanding predictions the illegal traffic could damage the region's political stability
because the people who produce and deal in cocaine, marijuana and heroin are so wealthy, the law enforcement agencies entrusted with the fight against them are often outmatched
indeed, bolivian president victor paz estenssoro estimates cocaine brings in $600 million each year to his nation, compared to $500 million for all legal exports combined
in that impoverished south american country alone, about 400,000 farmers, merchants and others depend directly or indirectly on coca leaf farming and cocaine for their livelihood
allegations that the drug trade is providing funds for candidates has become an issue in this year's election in venezuela. an outburst of drug-related violence in colombia has led to calls for the government to be given special powers to combat it
bolivia, colombia and mexico have for some time been known as notorious centers of drug production and trafficking
but in recent months, cases and allegations of officials playing an integral role in the drug trade have emerged in once overlooked countries _ honduras, haiti and panama
and after a period of relative calm, drug cases proceeding in the u.s. judicial system are once again having a major impact on relations between washington and many latin american nations
unfortunately, much the united states does these days becomes buried in ideological rhetoric which has nothing whatever to do with the issue at hand,'' said a recent editorial in the daily nation, the largest newspaper in the caribbean island nation of barbados
traditionally, the response from governments and observers in the region is to call for the united states to look more closely at how to control american drug consumers, whose dollars provide the basic incentive for the trade
in a recent editorial, the mexican government news agency notimex said the money floated in the drug trade approximates the total amount of debt service payments made by latin american countries each year _ something in the neighborhood of $47 billion
that figure shows the economic magnitude that the networks of narcotics trafficking have, and the use of planes, ships, weapons and a great deal of money to bribe officials and judicial authorities,'' the editorial said. ``however, the principal problem is the enormous consumption of drugs that exists in the united states, and that reaches $110 billion.''
gen. manuel antonio noriega, chief of the defense forces of panama and the power behind his country's nominally civilian government, was named in two florida indictments feb. 5 for racketeering and other drug-related charges
allegations of his involvement in a wide range of illicit activities, including drug trafficking and money laundering, have played a role in protests against his rule that began in june
in retaliation for the steady attacks from washington, noriega's supporters have called for the ouster of the southern command, headquarters for all u.s. military activities in latin america
the pentagon, meanwhile, has described as ``isolated cases'' the recent discovery of two cocaine shipments aboard u.s. military aircraft based in panama, saying they did not appear linked to official corruption in that country
in honduras, a key u.s. ally in central america, the government and armed forces have responded with indignation to newspaper accounts alleging links between the military and drug traffickers
i am free of any guilt,'' gen. humberto regalado hernandez, chief of the honduran armed forces, said in a telephone interview. ``i will not deceive my own people.''
haitian col. jean-claude paul, who runs an army unit known as his country's most brutal, was named by a miami businessman as haiti's main cocaine trafficker. the businessman, osvaldo quintana, told reporters he also knew of involvement by higher haitian officials
testimony at the trial of reputed colombian drug kingpin carlos lehder rivas in jacksonville, fla., has implicated prime minister lynden o. pindling of the bahamas
nine mexicans were indicted in january in los angeles in the 1985 kidnap-murder of american drug agent enrique camarena salazar, while a san diego case a week later named seven mexicans among 12 foreign nationals said to be behind a major cocaine ring
we insist that it will not be possible to defeat international drug trafficking unless production, distribution and consumption are attacked with similar strength and effectiveness,'' president miguel de la madrid said at his feb. 13 meeting with president reagan. ``this final link (consumption in the united states) continues to have a determining influence in the criminal chain.''
it looks like (u.s. officials) are taking the problem seriously but they're not,'' bayardo ramirez monagas, president of venezuela's national commission on drug abuse, said in an interview. ``the problem is not production or consumption, but the financing.'' 1,500 meter speed skating, sted 5,000 meter. a longer version moved on the sports wire.</note>
he didn't win the 6.0 scores that signal an absolutely flawless program. but to figure skater brian boitano, his gold medal-winning performance at the olympics was the ultimate ``10.''
this time, it was perfect,'' the 24-year-old californian said one day after he defeated friend and rival brian orser of canada to become the only u.s. olympic gold medalist. the united states' only other medals have been a bronze in the figure skating pairs and a silver in 1,500 meter speed skating
for the first time in my life it looked better than it felt,'' boitano told a news conference sunday, after watching a video of his triumphant performance. ``i'm usually so critical of myself that i thought i'd see things i'd done wrong
instead ... it was the first time i could say the jumps were the best i've done and i could say, `hey, what a good program.' it's something you build for for years and when it happens ... it's the ultimate.''
saturday night's dramatic ``battle of the brians'' capped 10 years of skating rivalry that saw boitano lose the last two meetings, at skate canada last fall and at the 1987 world championships. each man selected his own military music and battle colors _ blue for boitano, red for orser
boitano, from the solemn opening notes from carmine coppola's ``napoleon'' to the final seconds when he thrust his fist in the air and wiped away a tear of elation, shone throughout
the four-time american titlist was first with five of the nine judges, to orser's four. although they tied in points, the judges gave boitano the victory on better technical marks
writing about his future for usa today newspaper, boitano said: ``it's kind of scary because you know your life is going to change, and you don't know if you're ready for it or if you want it to change.''
money, from commercial endorsements or other appearances, was not the reason behind his drive to win the gold, he wrote for today's edition. ``i'm sure i'll do some things with it, but it's not why i treasure it.''
it's going to be different when i go home. it's kind of scary thinking about what it's going to be like when i get back to san francisco, wondering if i'll be able to slip in and out everywhere without being recognized. i worry about privacy, about always being on show. `brain boitano seen drinking a wine,''' he said
a british soldier was arrested today after he fatally shot a civilian in the back as the man walked to a football match, the army said
the army said the soldier was in an observation tower sunday at a permanent military checkpoint a half-mile from the irish border
from the tower he took a shot at the man, aidan mcanespie, who was walking to a weekly gaelic football game in the village of aughnacloy, county tyrone
the 23-year-old died on the road before medical aid or a priest could reach him, police said
police said the soldier was arrested and was being interrogated. villagers said mcanespie belonged to the roman catholic minority in the british-ruled, protestant-majority province
the army said it ``deeply regrets'' the incident. it gave no other information and did not identify the soldier
it was cold-blooded murder _ i saw mcanespie shot in the back,'' said anthony mcgonnell, a councilman
francis molloy, another councilman, said mcanespie was an election worker for sinn fein, political arm of the outlawed irish republican army fighting british rule
molloy said mcanespie claimed to have been repeatedly harassed and threatened by the security forces
he said he was afraid the security forces would carry out their threats,'' molloy said
the shooting further strained relations between britain and the irish republic government in dublin. dublin called immediately for details of the killing
the irish government, which regards itself as responsible for the catholic minority in the north, has been angered by two recent developments
the british court of appeal recently upheld the convictions of six irishmen jailed for life for two bombings that killed 21 people on the british mainland in 1974. the irish republican army claimed responsibility for the blasts
britain also decided not to prosecute any northern ireland police officers connected with the police shootings of six unarmed catholics in an alleged ``shoot-to-kill'' policy against guerrilla suspects
the ira is fighting to end british rule in northern ireland and unite the province with the irish republic, which is predominantly roman catholic
fidel castro, in an interview published today, flatly denied presidential aspirant pat robertson's charge that the soviet union has nuclear missiles in cuba
in the interview, published in usa today, castro told the newspaper's chairman, allen h. neuharth, that there ``is not even a semblance of a soviet missile in cuba. not one. i repeat, not one.''
he also said in the weekend interview, conducted in havana, that talk of such missiles is ``insane.''
castro was asked about robertson's recent assertions that 25 intermediate-range soviet ss-4 and ss-5 missiles, armed with nuclear warheads, have been stationed in cuba. the white house subsequently said it had ``no indication'' of any nuclear weapons being in cuba
indeed, castro said in the interview, ``with your sophisticated satellite spying, you know when a cat is walking on the roof of a house in cuba.''
talk of cuba's posing a military threat to the united states, he said, is a ``walt disney fantasy.'' correct to leptospirosis, sted leprosy. picks up 11th graf, `the building ...'</note>
rescuers struggled in the rain early today to find survivors in the rubble of a collapsed apartment building in rio, where three days of mudslides and flash floods have killed at least 80 people
mayor roberto saturnino braga said the mud, water and debris made the city look like ``a giant stepped through'' the area
officials said the flooding, the worst in the city's history, had rendered homeless at least 11,000 of rio's 5.6 million residents, washing ramshackle homes down steep slopes and turning streets into raging torrents
throughout the city, army trucks and volunteers helped transport evacuated dwellers of precarious hillside shantytowns to temporary shelters in schools, churches and public buildings
citizens throughout the nation, prompted by all-night appeals on three commercial tv networks, donated truckloads of medicine, food, clothing and building supplies to the victims
using sledgehammers and chain saws, drenched firefighters worked frantically early today to pull people out of the concrete remains of a three-story, six-apartment building in the abolicao district
the dwelling was hit by a mudslide sunday night that killed at least 11 inhabitants in an avalanche of concrete and plaster
by sunday night, 9.6 inches of rain had fallen on the city since friday, when the flooding began
braga postponed the post-carnival reopening of schools and asked private employers to give their workers today off, saying the city could not handle a normal flux of traffic
health secretary jose noronha warned there might be an outbreak of leptospirosis, a group of sometimes fatal diseases that can cause fever, vomiting, anemia and bleeding of the skin and mucous membranes. leptospirosis is best known as weill's or swineherd's disease and is spread from animals to man. noronha told residents to boil drinking water and said the government would vaccinate for typhoid and tetanus
the building that collapsed in abolicao was in a lower-middle-class area. but most victims of the storms were poor people who had lived in shacks built on the city's steep mountainsides
water, mud and boulders washed many such shacks down the steep slopes and turned streets below into raging torrents and even lagoons
i can't even imagine what will happen to this city if the rains continue,'' said vice mayor jo rezende. ``the situation is desperate. we estimate 50,000 people will have to be given new housing in safer areas.''
at the collapsed building in abolicao, rescue workers trudged through knee-deep mud and rubble searching for victims. at least 13 people were rescued
in another district, rescue workers were forced to temporarily abandon their search for elderly patients and hospital staff killed when a mudslide wiped out a three-floor wing of the santa genoveva hillside clinic
although 350 mostly older patients were in the hospital when the slide occurred saturday, civil defense officials said only about 30 were missing
in the same district santa teresa, an eight-floor apartment building threatened to topple and was evacuated, engineers said
although the hillside slums that are home to about 2 million people were hardest hit, wealthy areas also suffered serious damage. evacuations were ordered after flooding hit the wealthy gavea, lagoa and jardim botanico districts
torrents raged down streets, prompting some people to tie their cars to posts to prevent them from being swept away. civil defense workers used amphibious vehicles and surfboards to reach people in partially submerged cars
meteorologists said the downpour, caused by an antarctic cold front, was likely to continue through today
earlier this month, 207 people died in flooding and mudslides around the state and 13,000 were left homeless. the worst-hit area was petropolis, a mountain resort town 40 miles north of rio. support</head>
a baby born with nearly no brain was on life-support equipment today as a potential organ donor, after a similar infant was taken off life support machinery, officials said
both newborns, born with the birth defect known as anencephaly, or severely underdeveloped brains, were part of a controversial program at loma linda university medical center preserving brain-dead anencephalic infants for use as organ donors
the practice has drawn fire from right-to-life groups charging cruelty, and from medical ethicists, who say it is questionable to keep the babies on life support when they have no chance at long-term survival
evelyn keys, born saturday in san antonio, texas, was flown to loma linda that night to be used in the donor program
she arrived just hours after a child identified only as baby john was taken off life support when a worldwide search failed to turn up any needy organ recipients matching his tissue type, said hospital spokeswoman anita rockwell
but one of the infant's heart valves was removed and stored for later use, ms. rockwell said
anencephalic babies usually die shortly after birth, and loma linda, where infant heart transplants have become routine, wants to establish a practice of sustaining such babies so their organs can be transplanted after brain death is certified by two independent physicians
hospital officials said removal of baby john's heart valve was the first use of body parts from a u.s. anencephalic infant. loma linda previously transplanted the heart from an anencephalic baby declared brain-dead in canada
baby evelyn was born to judy keys, 22, and airman todd keys, 21, of the 6993rd electronic security squad at lackland air force base
doctors report baby evelyn is resting comfortably, and although there are some signs of brain stem deterioration, she has not yet met all the criteria of brain death,'' ms. rockwell said today
loma linda is the first hospital in the united states to develop a medical program allowing the practice of sustaining anencephalic infants for transplants
if brain death does not occur within a week of birth, an anencephalic baby will be removed from its respirator and allowed to die naturally
several thousand anencephalic babies are born in the united states each year. their brain stems can sustain basic functions such as breathing for a short time, but death usually occurs within hours or days of birth
loma linda has specialized in infant heart transplants, with 13 babies under the age of four months given new hearts at the hospital. nine have survived
the center, 65 miles east of los angeles, became well known in 1984 when dr. leonard bailey unsuccessfully transplanted the heart of a baboon into an infant known as baby fae. ethiopia</head>
six european relief workers who were abducted by rebels in ethiopia have been released, a medical aid official said today
three irishwomen, two belgians and a dutchman were set free after being kidnapped by the popular front for the liberation of the tigre last thursday, said an official of the medical relief group medicins sans frontieres-belgium
the official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said no details were available and did not specify when the relief workers were freed
earlier today, seyoum musse, head of foreign relations for the london office of the rebel group said the six were in good condition
the whole aim of taking them with us was to show there are millions of people who are beyond the reach of ... isolated symbolic (government) food distribution centers like the one they were stationed at,'' musse said in a telephone interview
the aim is to dispel the government's misinformation that millions are being reached with aid,'' he said, denying that the group's action was an abduction
the government will not allow these workers to go outside the place they work. for this reason we have taken them a few hours away,'' he said. ``they are the guests of millions of starved people.''
the rebels abducted two belgian doctors and a dutch nurse of the international aid group along with two irish nuns and an irish doctor from their base in idaga hamous in tigre, about 340 miles north of the capital addis ababa, the medical group reported sunday
medicins san frontieres is an international non-governmental organization that has medical aid projects in 15 countries in central america, africa, the middle east and asia
a spokesman for the doctors group initially said the relief workers may have been abducted to treat rebel wounded. fighting in the northern province has been intense between the secessionist rebels and the government of lt. col. mengistu haile mariam
musse denied that the workers had been taken to treat wounded
we have our own doctors,'' he said. warning shots; picks up 7th graf pvs: u.s. officials...</note>
a u.s. warship making its maiden voyage on the persian gulf fired warning shots today at a pair of fishing boats that crew members initially believed were attack vessels
a u.s. military official, asking not to be identified, said the landing-dock ship trenton took the action ``after it observed two apparent boghammar-type boats coming toward it,'' about 30 miles off the coast of dubai
he said the trenton issued two verbal warnings, which were ignored, and as the boats approached to within 3,300 yards ``it fired a flare and bursts of .50-caliber machine-gun fire, at which time the craft stopped, then veered off toward the northeast
a helicopter sent up from the frigate john a. moore later confirmed through observation that both were fishing boats and neither was hit or damaged,'' the official added
he said the boats at first appeared to resemble the fast, swedish-built boghammar marin boats frequently used by iran's revolutionary guards to attack commercial ships in the gulf
u.s. warships in the past have fired warning shots to keep unidentified small boats and iraqi aircraft from approaching too close to convoys escorted by the navy
the 17,000-ton trenton had just arrived in the gulf hours earlier carrying about 400 u.s. marines and a contingent of marine attack helicopters
it was accompanied by the missile frigate john a. moore and the gus w. darnell, a 39,000-ton oiler chartered by the u.s. military sealift command. the darnell makes periodic trips into the gulf to pick up fuel oil for u.s. warships
u.s. officials said that because the group included no kuwaiti tankers or other commercial vessels under the u.s. flag, it would not be counted as a gulf ``transit.'' the navy has conducted 35 escorted convoys since last july and the next one is expected to leave kuwait in the next few days
meanwhile, the u.s. gulf operation will get a new commander this week, a 50-year-old career aviator who once headed the blue angels, the navy's elite acrobatic jet team
rear adm. anthony a. less, will become commanding officer of the navy's middle east force in ceremonies saturday aboard a new flagship, uss coronado. the salem, ohio, native replaces rear adm. harold j. bernsen
as commander of the force since july 1986, bernsen oversaw last year's buildup that followed president reagan's decision to re-register 11 kuwaiti oil tankers under the american flag to protect them from attacks by iran
under bernsen, the force nearly tripled in size, from about six to 17 warships. it was recently cut back to 16
the united states has been escorting kuwaiti vessels since last summer. the only mishap occurred during the first convoy when the supertanker bridgeton struck a mine, believed laid by iran, on july 24. since then, the navy has escorted 34 other convoys without a hitch
iranian ships frequently stop and search vessels they suspect of carrying cargo for iraq. iran also attacks neutral ships in retaliation for iraqi air raids on iran's oil shipping in the gulf. the two nations have been at war for 7{ years
the last such raid claimed by iraq was last tuesday, and no ship attacks by iran have been reported since feb. 11
less takes over a command being drastically reshaped for the second time in the past several months
on feb. 3 he relieved rear adm. dennis brooks as commander of the joint task force middle east, a shipboard headquarters created last year to improve coordination between the gulf-based ships and two supporting battle groups in the arabian sea
well-informed navy officers, speaking on condition of anonymity, say the system failed because of operational conflicts between the gulf and task force commanders
although the middle east force is a surface unit, u.s. law requires any ship with extensive air capability, such as the 16,912-ton coronado and the 15,000-ton la salle, which it replaces, to be commanded by an aviator
less flew a-7 corsair attack bombers from the carrier kitty hawk during the vietnam war and in 1973 became the first commanding officer of the blue angels when the flight demonstration team was formally made a squadron. he served as its commander and flight leader for three years
less later commanded the oil tanker wichita and the attack carrier ranger, operating in the western pacific and the indian ocean with the u.s. seventh fleet. since last august, he had commanded a carrier group and battle group
bernsen, a boston native, and specialist in aerial electronic surveillance, served five tours aboard the carrier forrestal in the mediterranean. he was commanding officer of the la salle _ later his own flagship _ during the 1979 u.s. hostage crisis in iran and the start of the iraq-iran war in 1980. and with trial beginning.</note>
explosions apparently caused by firebombs rocked a nursery school and a morgue early today in paris, causing extensive damage but no injuries, firefighters reported
a previously unknown group called committee of international revolutionary solidarity claimed responsibility for the morgue explosion, radio station rtl reported. the explosions came on the day that a trial of seven alleged french terrorists began
police said the explosion at the morgue, called medical-legal institute, occurred at about 5:30 a.m. a guardian and his family who live at the institute were awakened by the blast but not hurt
about half an hour later and a mile to the northeast, a second blast hit the ground floor of the wake-up school, a private nursery school in the lower middle-class charonne district east of the bastille
no one was at the school
fires at both locations were rapidly brought under control by firefighters
there was no immediate report of a claim of responsibility for the second explosion, and no indication why the nursery school or the morgue might have been chosen as targets
police refused to confirm that leaflets, claiming responsibility for the blast, had been found at the morgue
the radio station quoted the leaflets as saying ``although we are not sympathizers of direct action, we are against the state as arms dealer and a society that profits from death.''
direct action, the best-known extreme left terrorist group in france, was effectively dismantled by a series of arrests last year
the fourth trial this month of direct action members opened this afternoon, with seven people charged in the 1983 robberies of a jewelry store and a bank
jean-marc rouillan, one of four leaders of the group who have been on a hunger strike for 84 days but kept alive with transfusions, is among the seven defendants. confirming protester punishment edict, details of second memorial troops looking for agitators prior to shultz visit, additional injury in ramallah; picks up 15th graf pvs: ``a molotov...'' pls note keyword line was incorrectly given as israel-violence in 1st ld-writethru, a0529.</note>
palestinians held memorial services today for the 61 arabs killed by israelis troops, and israel's attorney general ruled soldiers could not use force to punish or humiliate protesters
two palestinians were wounded in clashes with soldiers in the west bank city of ramallah and the gaza strip refugee camp jabaliya, hospital officials said
in the gaza strip city khan yunis, an israeli civilian fired in the air after his car was stoned by protesters, an arab reporter said
the army said it was checking both reports. it also said an arab was arrested after trying to stab an israeli soldier in ramallah, the third such attack in four days
leaflets distributed in the occupied territories declared a ``martyrs' day'' today and called for demonstrations and a strike this week to protest the visit to israel by u.s. secretary of state george shultz
army officials said the five-day shultz visit, scheduled to begin thursday, might prompt an escalation of violence
it's not organized or systematic, but outside events like the shultz visit do affect the situation,'' an army spokeswoman said on condition of anonymity
jerusalem police spokesman rafi levy said 1,500 additional officers brought in from other areas had been deployed in the holy city to curb arab violence
israeli troops entered the arab neighborhood of silwan at the foot of the mount of olives and cleared away makeshit barricades, while national police went door-to-door checking identifications and looking for agitators
attorney general yosef harish sent a letter to defense minister yitzhak rabin saying soldiers may not use force as a means of punishment or humiliation, said justice ministry spokeswoman etty eshed
orders that call for such use of force are illegal, ruled harish, who demanded rabin issue appropriate instructions to the troops
ms. eshed said harish decided to take action after many palestinians complained to him about abuse by soldiers
in an army survey, 65 percent of soldiers questioned said they had witnessed rough treatment of palestinians by troops, said the army's chief psychologist, col. shlomo dover, on israel radio
we don't have problems with the motivation of soliders ... not that they rejoice to do it, but it's an assignment that has been given to the army and that's how it is seen by the soldiers,'' he said
since the wave of protests began dec. 8 in the territories israel seized in the 1967 middle east war, israelis have killed 61 palestinians. the latest fatalities were two men shot and killed by soldiers sunday
the government has spent $330 million, or 1 percent of the government's 1988 budget, in an attempt to quell the violence
palestinians held memorial services monday to mark arabs killed by israeli soldiers
about 1,500 arabs marched through kfar naama in the west bank to mourn the loss of the second village to die in the violence that began dec. 8. marchers listened to a series of defiant speeches condemning israel's occupation and renamed one of the roads, the street of the martyrs of the uprising
no soldiers appeared, and no violence was reported
in another memorial service today, women marched to a cemetery in the west bank village of anabta to honor three residents who died in clashes with the army earlier this month
a molotov cocktail was thrown at an israeli car in the west bank town of ramallah, but no one was injured, the army said
in the gaza strip refugee camp of jabaliya, soldiers clashed with protesters, and a 14-year-old boy was shot in the thigh, doctors at gaza city's shifa hospital said
in gaza city, anti-american slogans painted in red on closed store shutters read: ``no to the shultz visit. yes to the palestinian government. yes to the plo.''
the palestine liberation organization has ordered palestinians in the west bank and gaza strip not to meet with shultz, saying he is pro-israeli and has rejected minimal palestinian demands
but local palestinian leaders said today that they were trying to persuade plo chief yasser arafat to lift the ban. u.s. officials met with several palestinian representatives over the weekend to discuss the shultz visit
during his visit, shultz will present to israeli leaders a u.s. peace initiative calling for an international forum for direct talks on palestinian self-rule and negotiations on a final settlement by december
but prime minister yitzhak shamir told european jewish leaders sunday night he objected to the hurried pace: ``any attempt to force the pace and shorten the period (of self-rule) would be a detriment to the very essence of the agreement.''
he also indicated he would not give in to pressure to accept the american plan: ``when the time comes for decisions, we shall decide on the basis of what is in our national interests.''
the supreme court today agreed to study a key affirmative action issue _ the power of local governments to require minority participation in public works projects
the justices said they will hear an appeal by richmond, va., officials seeking to revive a so-called set-aside program for construction industry businesses owned by minorities
the court previously expressed interest in examining the issue when on jan. 19 it asked the justice department to comment on a construction company's challenge to a set-aside program in the miami area
but the justices stopped short of announcing whether they will hear arguments in the miami dispute
in the richmond case, the 4th u.s. circuit court of appeals ruled last september that the city's preferential treatment for minority businesses approved in 1983 is an unconstitutional form of reverse discrimination
the richmond plan would require the prime contractor on any city building contract to subcontract at least 30 percent of the value of the project to firms that are at least one-half minority owned
the minorities covered by the plan were blacks, hispanics, orientals, indians, eskimos and aleuts
the appeals court, in its 2-1 decision, relied heavily on a 1986 supreme court ruling that struck down an affirmative action plan in michigan designed to protect from lay-offs minority teachers with less seniority than whites
the supreme court in that case said preferential treatment of minorities must be narrowly tailored to avoid hurting whites. the court restricted the power of employers to adopt affirmative action programs when there has not been proof those employers practiced past discrimination
supporters of local set-aside programs, on the other hand, point to a 1980 supreme court ruling that congress may require 10 percent of federal public works contracts be earmarked for minority-controlled businesses
an eventual supreme court ruling on local set-aside programs would have far-reaching impact
most states and some 160 local governments have such programs, according to a study by the minority business enterprise legal defense education fund
the 4th circuit court, in striking down the richmond plan, said the city's program was adopted on scant evidence of past discrimination
the appeals court noted that minorities comprise about half of richmond's population and that minority-owned businesses had received less than 1 percent of the value of the city's public building contracts
but the appeals court said there are few minority-owned businesses in the city area, and there was no evidence they had been victims of past discrimination
general population statistics suggest, if anything, more of a political than a remedial basis for the racial preference'' quota in the set-aside program, the 4th circuit court said. ``there has been no showing that qualified minority contractors who submitted low bids were passed over.''
the appeals court also said the 30 percent quota ``was chosen arbitrarily. the figure simply emerged from the mists.''
the richmond ordinance reflects the most casual deployment of race in the dispensation of public benefits. it prefers some, and in so doing diminishes the rights of all,'' the appeals court said
a coalition of groups representing local and state governments urged the supreme court to reinstate the richmond plan
the coalition said it would reopen old wounds and discourage affirmative action if governments must first show past discrimination before adopting remedial programs
the coalition groups are the national league of cities, the u.s. conference of mayors, the national association of counties and the international city management association
richmond's plan was challenged by the j.a. croson co. after its bid _ the only one submitted _ to install stainless steel urinals and water closets at the city jail was rejected
city officials refused to award the contract after croson said there was only one unqualified minority contractor that could help on the project. the company said the cost of the project would rise by $7,663 if the minority contractor were used. the city then called for new bids
the case is richmond vs. croson, 87-998
sara and amy kienast glare at each other over feet propped on the dining room table and argue the finer points of rock 'n' roll music. they both like it, but amy wouldn't be caught listening to rem
and so it goes with the kienast quintuplets: they are so much alike yet so different
sara, amy, abby, ted and gordon turn 18 on wednesday and hope the day marks the end of media-mobbed birthdays and the beginning of separate lives
we've been five all our lives. now is our chance to be one,'' said sara as her brothers and sisters nod in agreement. ``we want to make a name for ourselves, by ourselves.''
after years of press scrutiny, well-publicized financial problems and the suicide of their father, the quints are a steely bunch and proud of it
they also are distinctly individual. each plans to attend a different college and four have picked schools far from the spacious farmhouse in this new york city suburb where they grew up
it's about time,'' abby said with a grin. ``i've been with them for 18 years. i could make do without seeing their faces every day.''
none plans to tell new friends he or she is a quintuplet
why should we have someone look at us and think of four different people,'' said sara
the quints say their separation in the fall will be painless because they all live separate lives now
we basically have the same friends, but we don't hang out with the same people,'' said amy. ``on the weekends, we don't do things together.''
the siblings say that all that sets them apart from other teen-agers is that there are five of them
we have the same fights, you know, that other brothers and sisters have. the girls are always taking my sweaters and stuff,'' ted said to the protests of his sisters
the quints gained worldwide attention when they were born feb. 24, 1970, after their mother, peggy jo kienast, took fertility drugs
at first, many offers of help and endorsement opportunities clothed and fed the children. but financial pressures began a few years later and an anonymous source saved them from eviction by providing more than $115,000 to pay off mortgages and property taxes the kienasts owed
in 1984, the quints' father, william, committed suicide after his plastics business began to falter
at that most difficult time, reporters and photographers camped outside the family's home, making the family angry
i really started to resent the media when dad died,'' said sara. ``there's a limit you can take
i understand now,'' said ted. ``they have a job to do and someone sends them out to get a picture and they have paychecks and families, too. but at the time it was too much.''
despite the unwanted attention, the quintuplets say they appreciated the cards and letters they received from around the world when their father died
they also say they have put his death behind them
we couldn't dwell on it,'' amy said. ``mom wanted us to get on with our lives.''
mrs. kienast says she's looking forward to her children leaving home
i'm all for parenting and children, but i don't live through my children. i'm looking forward to this next step,'' she said. ``you're worn out by their senior year.''
the quints' birthdays _ what ted calls ``press day'' _ have always been met by clicking cameras and a string of interviews. but this year will be different: the quints plan to go their separate ways and celebrate with friends on wednesday, then hold a private family party on sunday
the supreme court today refused to let a texas hospital withhold the names of its blood donors from a woman who says her baby daughter contracted aids after receiving transfusions
the court, without comment, let stand a ruling that the donors' privacy rights do not override belinda jackson's need to find out their identities in her wrongful-death lawsuit against the hospital
ms. jackson sued the tarrant county hospital district in 1986, alleging that her daughter, tristainne, died of acquired immune deficiency syndrome after receiving blood transfusions in 1983 at john peter smith hospital in fort worth
in pretrial discovery proceedings, ms. jackson sought to find out the identities and addresses of all blood donors whose blood had been used in the treatment of her prematurely born daughter
hospital district officials asked for permisssion to withhold the information, contending that releasing it would violate the donors' privacy rights and threaten the future availability of a volunteer blood supply program
judge william l. hughes jr., who is presiding over the state court case, ruled for ms. jackson in late 1986, but later blocked any disclosure of the blood donors' identities so the hospital district could appeal
a state appeals court also ruled for ms. jackson, and the texas supreme court refused to hear the hospital district's appeal last oct. 7
in the appeal acted on today, lawyers for the hospital district said it is unclear whether restrictions imposed by the state judge would block ms. jackson from asking friends, co-workers and others about intimate and discreet details about the donors' personal lives
the parameters of the constitutional right of privacy of blood donors should be considered and defined by this court,'' the hospital district lawyers said. ``a viable national supply of blood and blood products is at stake.''
the case is tarrant county hospital district vs. hughes, 87-1082
an army colonel accused in the 1986 slaying of a leftist leader surrendered to the military today, military sources said
lt. col. eduardo ``red'' kapunan was placed under house arrest at his residence in suburban quezon city's camp aquinaldo, home of the philippine armed forces, the sources said, speaking on condition of anonymity
last week, chief of staff gen. renato de villa ordered the arrest of kapunan and three other members of a military group known as reform the armed forces movement in connection with the nov. 13, 1986, slaying of leftist leader rolando olalia and his chauffeur
two of the four remained at large and the other member, navy capt. rex robles, also is under house arrest at camp aguinaldo
a letter purportedly written by kapunan and given to filipino reporters denied he was involved in the slaying of olalia
i am innocent of these charges being leveled against me and i believe this is all part of a grand scheme to discredit all of us who were involved in the february revolution which installed mrs. (corazon) aquino as president,'' it said
kapunan said because he has been implicated in the olalia case he has become an enemy of the kilusang mayo uno, or may first movement, a leftist labor movement that blames the military for olalia's death
meanwhile, robles left his house monday and started to walk with his wife to a post chapel for a mass for members of his movement but military police made him return home, his wife said
the mass marked the second anniversary of the day when then defense minister juan ponce enrile and then-lt. gen. fidel ramos broke with president ferdinand e. marcos as part of the ``people power'' revolution in february 1986 that led to the downfall of marcos and the rise of aquino
last week, members of the military reform movement claimed ramos, now defense secretary, had failed to check corruption during his tenure as military chief of staff and had used his position to increase his personal wealth
ramos has dismissed the allegations made in a letter by the reform the armed forces movement
the supreme court today agreed to decide when police need court warrants before searching from helicopters for marijuana growing in fenced-in yards
the justices said they will study a florida supreme court ruling that a helicopter search by sheriff's deputies in pasco county four years ago violated the right of privacy
the nation's highest court in 1986 ruled that a warrantless search by santa clara, calif., police in an airplane had not violated privacy rights
in that case, police spotted marijana plants growing in a fenced-in yard while flying at a lawful altitude of 1,000 feet
voting 5-4 then, the justices said the constitution's fourth amendment, which bans unreasonable government searches, ``simply does not require the police traveling in public airways at this altitude (1,000 feet) to obtain a warrant in order to observe what is visible to the naked eye.''
in the florida case, pasco county deputies received an anonymous tip that michael a. riley was growing marijuana in his yard
unable to tell what plants were growing in a greenhouse in the yard, the deputies flew over the yard in a helicopter, at an altitude of about 400 feet. from there, they could look into missing panels in the greenhouse roof
based on what they saw, the deputies obtained a search warrant and entered riley's yard, seizing 44 marijuana plants
riley challenged the helicopter search, seeking to block prosecutors from using the marijuana plants as evidence against him
the florida supreme court last july 9 ruled for riley, stating that the helicopter search violated riley's reasonable expectation of privacy under the fourth amendment
the state court said the 1986 decision did not authorize ``an unlimited right to any type of examination of residential property from the air.''
the state court added, ``surveillance by helicopter is particularly likely to unreasonably intrude upon private activities ... because of a helicopter's virtually unlimited maneuverability and observational capabilities.''
it noted that fixed-wing airplanes are not authorized to fly lower than 500 feet in the area where the search occurred
florida prosecutors filed the appeal acted on today
the case is florida vs. riley, 87-764
the supreme court today agreed to decide whether states may tax any income from oil and natural gas extracted from the outer continental shelf
the court said it will hear an appeal by shell oil co. challenging an iowa tax
the state tax is designed to be imposed on that portion of a company's income derived from doing business in iowa
shell oil said it was improper for state officials to include any revenue from offshore gas and oil in determining the company's taxable income
shell said the state tax violates a 1953 federal law authorizing exploration and production of outer continental shelf oil and gas
the shelf is underwater land more than three miles off the shore of any state. the land is owned by the federal government and leased to private companies
the iowa supreme court upheld the state tax last october. it said the levy ``is in no way dependent upon the exercise of legislative jursidiction on outer continental shelf lands'' that the 1953 federal law was intended to prohibit
including revenue from ocs oil and gas ``apparently aids in obtaining an accurate measure of the tax to be imposed as a result of shell's iowa activities,'' the state court said
the reagan administration agreed with the ruling of the iowa court but urged the u.s. supreme court to use shell's appeal to settle the dispute
justice department lawyers noted that the iowa case would be a good one for the high court to use in examining state tax authority because the iowa tax takes into account sales both on and off the outer continental shelf
the case is shell oil vs. iowa, 87-984
the supreme court today refused to reconsider its 4-4 decision last december striking down an illinois law that could have made abortions more difficult to obtain for some teen-agers
the justices, without comment, rejected a request by illinois attorney general neil f. hartigan that they restudy the law ``after the appointment of a ninth justice.''
justice anthony m. kennedy joined the court last thursday, filling an eight-month vacancy. he did not participate in today's order denying reconsideration
despite his 12-year tenure as a federal appeals court judge, kennedy's legal views on abortion are unknown
the high court's decision in december was not accompanied by a written opinion, but merely upheld a ruling that the challenged illinois law impermissibly interfered with abortion rights
such even splits among the justices automatically uphold lower court decisions in the particular cases but set no national precedent
in seeking reconsideration, hartigan emphasized the importance of ``a decision by a full court'' in the case
the illinois law required that girls under 18 and still financially dependent on their parents notify both parents 24 hours before having an abortion
the law allowed a girl to avoid notifying her parents if she could prove to a state judge that she was mature enough and well-informed enough to make the decision on her own and that notifying her parents would not be in her best interest
doctors who failed to comply with the law's requirement faced criminal prosecution
a federal appeals court ruled that the 24-hour waiting period is an impermissible infringement on the right to have an abortion, established by a landmark 1973 supreme court decision
the appeals court also said the illinois law provision for parental notification or judicial permission could not be enforced because it did not ensure confidentiality and anonymity for girls who appeal when a judge denies permission for an abortion
the chauffeur of defense minister jose horacio jaunarena was shot to death when he tried to prevent a robbery aboard a bus, police said
the chauffeur, roquelmo ismael zapata, 57, was heading home in the early morning hours when two armed men boarded his bus in suburban sarandi and demanded the passengers' money and valuables
police said zapata produced his .38-caliber handgun, carried as part of his duties as the defense minister's driver, and a shootout occurred in which zapata was wounded several times. no other casualties were reported, and the gunmen fled, police said
zapata was pronounced dead at finocchieto hospital, officials said
a 24-hour transport strike called by leftist guerrillas virtually halted bus and truck traffic today and drastically curtailed use of automobiles
the strike was called by members of the farabundo marti national liberation front to protest legislative and municipal elections scheduled for march 20. the rebels say the elections are a farce
no buses circulated in this capital of 1 million people. thousands of people walked to work, although some pickup trucks jammed with passengers were on the roads
the army said it doubled motorized patrols to provide security for people who defied the strike
the private radio station ysu said truck and bus traffic nationwide was about 5 percent of normal. from the western provincial capital of santa ana, the radio reported that the stoppage of buses was total
it said two buses of 50 that normally would have been dispatched left the eastern provincial capital of san miguel for other cities
the leftist guerrillas have been fighting the u.s.-backed government since 1979 with a campaign that includes economic sabotage
there were seven guerrilla-imposed transport strikes last year. three strike violators were killed, about 30 were wounded and some 160 vehicles were destroyed or damaged
the supreme court today said it will consider reversing a victory basketball coach jerry tarkanian won in his legal battle with the ncaa
the justices agreed to review a decision barring the ncaa from suspending tarkanian as coach at the university of nevada-las vegas for alleged recruiting and other violations
lower courts also awarded tarkanian substantial reimbursement for legal expenses
tarkanian, who has coached at unlv since 1973 during a highly successful 30-year career, was accused by the national collegiate athletic association in 1976 of numerous rule violations
ncaa officials said tarkanian arranged for a student to get a ``b'' grade without attending class, provided free air fare to a student-athlete, encouraged individuals to give the ncaa false information to impede its probe, falsely certified unlv's program as being in compliance with ncaa rules and failed to comport with high ethical standards
the ncaa placed the unlv basketball program on two years' probation in 1977 for recruiting violations and ordered the university to suspend tarkanian from coaching for two years
but tarkanian obtained a court order blocking the suspension and continued coaching
the nevada supreme court ruled last august that the ncaa violated tarkanian's constitutional rights by failing to afford him due process in its 2{-year investigation
the state court said the probe was based largely on recollections by investigators of interviews with their sources. notes of the interviews sometimes were dictated after the fact, the state court said
it also said tarkanian and unlv officials presented signed affidavits by those the ncaa interviewed in which the witnesses contradicted the ncaa's evidence
in the circumstances of this case, this procedure does not comport with due process requirements,'' the state court said
the state court also ruled that the ncaa, a private organization representing nearly 1,000 colleges and universities, acted in the capacity of the state in depriving tarkanian of his rights
purely private organizations cannot violate anyone's constitutional rights
the nevada supreme court said the ncaa is vested with state power in this case because tarkanian works for a state school
the right to discipline public employees is traditionally the exclusive prerogative of the state,'' the nevada court said. ``unlv cannot escape responsibility for disciplinary action against employees by delegating that duty to a private entity (the ncaa).''
a state court judge awarded tarkanian $200,000 in legal fees. the state supreme court said the the sum should be reduced, and ordered further hearings to determine the amount
in the appeal acted on today, ncaa officials said tarkanian was treated fairly
they also argued that tarkanian got a ``home court'' advantage by taking his case to a nevada state judge who overruled the findings of the ncaa investigators
the judge ruled ``in favor of a popular, local personality'' substituting his views ``for that of 21 independent teachers and administrators who heard all of the evidence,'' the ncaa's appeal said
the case is ncaa vs. tarkanian, 87-1061
flash floods roared through central south africa today, killing at least 12 people and leaving hundreds of others without homes
up to 12 inches of rain soaked parts of orange free state province during the weekend, washing out roads, bursting dams and flooding huge stretches of farmland, authorities said
military helicopters plucked 200 people from houses, trees, cars and areas inaccessible by road, the air force reported
telephone lines were down in many areas, and the city of bloemfontein, the capital of the orange free state, only could be reached by air, officials said
rivers in the region have overflowed their banks and many small towns have been evacuated, officials added. heavy rains were predicted to continue through tuesday, forecasters said
officials said the storm killed 12 people and forced several hundred others to flee their homes
lulu de jager, spokesman for the orange free state agricultural union, said farm damage from the flooding would run into millions of dollars
we will start a survey when the weather clears up, but we may take if for granted that crop and livestock losses have been astronomical,'' de jager said
heavy flooding last september in the southeastern part of the country left more than 300 people dead and 500,000 homeless
the supreme court today agreed to judge the validity of a 5 percent tax illinois imposes on all telephone calls charged to in-state numbers
the court said it will study arguments that the tax interferes impermissibly with interstate commerce
the tax is assessed at a flat rate on all calls, intrastate and interstate, charged to illinois service addresses
two state residents, jerome f. goldberg and robert mctigue, challenged the law in a class-action lawsuit three years ago in chicago. gte sprint communications corp. joined the case later, seeking to recover taxes already paid
from sept. 15, 1985, to july 1986, gte sprint paid $2.6 million in taxes under the challenged illinois telecommunications excise tax
the illinois supreme court upheld the tax last june 24, reversing a state appeals court ruling that had invalidated it
the appeals court had said illinois ``is attempting to tax the entire cost of an interstate act which takes place only partially in illinois.''
the appeals court had added, ``this tax ... discriminates against interstate commerce and it is not related to services provided in illinois.''
the state supreme court acknowledged that illinois is taxing the ``gross charge'' of an entire interstate call ``even though the benefits it affords are limited to that portion of the communication occurring within the state.''
but it said the tax does not unduly burden interstate commerce
the two state residents and gte sprint filed separate supreme court appeals, and the national taxpayers union urged the justices as a ``friend of the court'' to strike down the tax
its brief argued:
if illinois attempted to tax united parcel service on the entire value of its service for all packages picked up in the state, regardless of where they were delivered, that tax would fall before the (constitution's) commerce clause ... telecommunications companies, whether they are in the telephone, telegraph or electronic data transmission business, provide a service which, for many purposes, is functionally identical.''
the cases are goldberg vs. sweet, 87-826, and gte sprint vs. sweet, 87-1101. `passenger sary ....' ^by joe ruff</note>
an amtrak official defended the actions of crew members aboard a train that caught fire over the weekend, saying that despite passenger complaints, several lives may have been saved
passengers aboard amtrak's california zephyr said they received no warnings or instructions from crew members after the fire broke out early saturday, killing a chef and injuring 19 other people
i think our on-board crew's initial instinct was to make sure passengers weren't in any danger from the fire. then they had to get employees out of the car,'' said amtrak spokesman john jacobsen in a telephone interview from washington
we could have easily had four or five employees killed in that dormitory car yesterday,'' jacobsen said
however, the actions of a conductor and his assistant may have saved several lives, jacobsen said
conductor j.p. jones, of arvada, colo., and assistant conductor todd m. witaker of denver separated the crew car from the train's baggage car and engine to reach people endangered by the smoke, jacobsen said
the fire aboard the 14-car westbound train carrying 294 passengers and a crew of 18 was reported about 3 a.m. as the train was pulling into hastings for a scheduled stop. hastings fire chief jim mitera said the blaze was under control about 90 minutes later
passenger sara bentley of fremont said later it was a miracle no one panicked
i think the worse thing was that they didn't let anyone in our car know whether we were in danger,'' ms. bentley said. ``we couldn't find out if our car was safe.''
jacobsen said an amtrak investigation was continuing, and that no disciplinary action had been taken against any crew members. the national transportation safety board also was investigating
jacobsen said the fire may have been caused by luggage or some other flammable material placed near a heater in a crew car, contrary to earlier findings by the nebraska state fire marshal's office that pointed to an electrical short in the heater
amtrak investigators didn't find evidence of a short, jacobsen said. state fire marshal wally barnett said he would stand by the state report
we're fire investigators, and we think we're right,'' barnett said sunday
the victim, identified as chef cesar arguelles, 70, of chicago, was one of seven crew members on the car, jacobsen said. county attorney gary anderberg said an autopsy showed the chef died of smoke inhalation
nine crew members and three passengers were treated for smoke inhalation at mary lanning hospital. all but two had been released by this morning, nursing supervisor mona mueller said. those two were in satisfactory condition and were expected to be released today
jacobsen said the fire probably would prompt amtrak officials to renew their search for an effective smoke alarm for their trains. but no models work now because they are often set off by the constant vibrations of trains, he said
edward s. ``ted'' o'meara, who has a spent a decade as an aide to members of maine's congressional delegation, today launched his own bid for southern maine's 1st congressional district seat
i have done my apprenticeship with the best and i am ready to enter the arena as a candidate in my own right,'' he said
he will oppose l.l. bean heiress linda bean-jones for the republican nomination. the seat is held by democratic rep. joseph e. brennan, a former governor completing his first two-year term
o'meara, 35, worked for rep. olympia j. snowe during her first term in congress and joined sen. william cohen's staff in 1981. he is cohen's executive assistant for maine, with responsibility for six offices in the state and a staff of 16 people. court</head>
the supreme court today let stand a ruling that forces ann arbor, mich., city officials to justify in federal court a zoning ordinance limiting where adult bookstores may be opened for business
the court, without comment, refused to hear arguments aimed at squelching a lawsuit challenging the ordinance
the ordinance limits the area where adult bookstores may locate to a portion of downtown ann arbor representing less than 1 percent of the land within the city's 25.3 square miles
adult bookstores are defined by the ordinance as those where sexually explicit materials comprise more than 20 percent of the stock in trade. so any business establishment, anywhere in the city, may have up to 20 percent of its trade in adult materials
karen christy, who sought to operate an adult bookstore in an area not zoned for adult entertainment, sued the city. she sought to block enforcement of the zoning ordinance
u.s. district judge charles joiner refused to block enforcement, ruling that the ordinance is not impermissibly restrictive
the 20 percent requirement provides a beneficial way for decentralization of the adult book business,'' he said. ``by sanctioning the selling of adult books and other books together, the city has eliminated most of the well-known problems of urban blight that result from concentrations of these bookstores without sacrificing its citizens' first amendment freedoms,'' joiner said
but the 6th u.s. circuit court of appeals ruled last july 23 that joiner was wrong
a city cannot arbitrarily limit the exercise of first amendment rights,'' the appeals court said. ``a limitation of adult materials to 20 percent of a bookseller's wares conditions the constitutional right to speak in one way on the bookseller's willingness to speak in a different way 80 percent of the time.''
the appeals court sent the case back to joiner for further study after saying it found no evidence ``of a legitimate government objective for the passage of this zoning ordinance.''
in the appeal acted on today, city officials argued, among other things, that the constitution's first amendment does not guarantee the existence of adult bookstores if ``the right of access to such materials may be accommodated in other ways.''
the case is ann arbor vs. christy, 87-649. with report that two planes shot down. picks up 3rd graf pvs, `south africa ...' inserts 3 grafs after 6th graf, `during the . ..,' with details of report. picks up 7th graf, `south africa .. .'</note>
the military today said a south african pilot was missing after his plane was shot down in southeast angola during a weekend air raid
the plane was struck by ground fire while attacking cuban and angolan government troops during a battle saturday, the military said. it was the second time during south africa's five-month intervention in angola that it acknowledged losing one of its warplanes inside the country
the angolan news agency angop reported today that angolan government troops shot down two south african jetfighters over the weekend and have scored significant gains in recent battles against south african units and the angolan rebel movement unita
south africa launched two other air attacks saturday in southern angola against bases of the south-west african people's organization, known as swapo, in retaliation for the bombing friday of a bank in south-west africa. the death toll in the bombing reached 20, south-west african police said today
south africa also announced that it followed up the air attacks with long-range mortar bombardments saturday and sunday on swapo positions. the military said the mortar attacks were ``successful,'' but did not disclose any details
south africa occupies south-west africa, also known as namibia, in violation of a united nations resolution. its forces regularly enter angola to raid swapo bases
during the saturday afternoon attack, a plane piloted by maj. edward every was downed by ground fire, the military said, adding that the air raid was staged because the angolan-cuban forces ``posed a potential threat'' to south african troops
the angop report, monitored in lisbon, portugal, identified one of the downed south african pilots as maj. every, and said angolan officials had recovered his personal effects
the report did not specify whether every was in angolan custody, and did not identify the pilot of the other plane, both of which were french-made mirage fighter bombers
in a separate dispatch, angop reported that south african bombing raids caused ``countless deaths'' over the weekend
south africa announced in november that its troops were fighting in angola to support the national union for the total independence of angola, or unita, rebel movement. however, it is widely believed that south african troops began fighting in angola one month earlier, in october
unita has been fighting a 12-year bush war for a power-sharing agreement with angola's marxist government, which is backed by cuban and soviet forces
president eduardo dos santos of angola said sunday that 9,000 south african soldiers are deployed in southern angola. he also said south africa has staged 16 air raids so far this year, and that six south african planes have been shot down and 140 of that nation's soldiers have been killed
south africa has repeatedly refused in recent months to disclose the extent of its military involvement in angola. however, it has announced the deaths of more than 30 soldiers since november
the military said in november that one of its warplanes had crashed in angola while participating in an attack on swapo forces and that another plane had been hit but managed to return to a base in namibia before crash-landing
republican presidential contenders jack kemp and bob dole each collected $1 million or more in contributions during january, leading all the candidates, financial reports showed today
but rival george bush still sits the most comfortably, ending the month with more than $9 million in cash on hand. that compared to $4 million for dole, the senator from kansas, and $446,067 for kemp, the new york congressman who had $1.3 million in debts after paying off $2.5 million with the federal matching funds he got in january
the financial disclosure statement for former television evangelist pat robertson was not on file this morning at the federal election commission, although the reports were due saturday
bush raised $767,892 in contributions for the month, but he also got $6.4 million in federal matching funds based on his total fund-raising from last year. dole got $1.2 million in contributions and $5.6 million in matching funds during january, and kemp raised $1 million in donations, $3.9 million in matching funds and $750,000 in loans
on the democratic side, sen. paul simon of illinois and rep. richard gephardt of missouri both went into february's iowa caucuses and new hampshire primary in debt and had to take out loans
both have said their fund-raising has improved since then
democrats michael dukakis, the massachusetts governor, and sen. albert gore jr. of tennessee, on the other hand, apparently were in good shape _ dukakis with $4 million in the bank, and gore with $2 million
gore however, while abandoning the iowa race to devote attention to the southern states, raised just $180,746 for the month of january, in addition to the $1.8 million in matching funds he got
dukakis raised $804,839 in contributions and got $3.5 million matching funds
matching funds were released in january based on the candidates' fund-raising for all preceding months
simon's finance director bob edgar said the senator has raised more than $1 million in donations so far this year, and in the two weeks following the feb. 8 iowa contest set a record for his campaign
his report shows that in january he raised $534,259 in contributions, got $1.9 million in matching funds, and $523,674 in loans
gephardt collected $212,702 in contributions and $1.9 million in matching funds
the reports of democrats gary hart and jesse jackson were not on file this morning, nor was that of bruce babbitt, the former arizona governor who dropped out of the race last week
republican pete du pont, the former delaware governor who also dropped out of the running last week, closed his campaign with $564,223 in cash on hand and $59,089 in debts, his report showed
the supreme court today agreed to hear appeals by the reagan administration and coal mining companies seeking to block the possible award of billions of dollars in black lung disease benefits to thousands of miners
the court said it will review a ruling that the government must reopen some previously rejected claims for benefits
the administration said the ruling by a federal appeals court, if extended nationwide, could force officials to re-examine 94,000 claims at potentially tremendous cost to the overburdened fund that pays benefits to miners afflicted with the disease
the 8th u.s. circuit court of appeals last march ruled that thousands of miners seeking the benefits had been unfairly denied a hearing
the ruling applied to miners with less than 10 years of work in the mines whose claims were denied in the late 1970s and early 1980s
the appeals court said the u.s. department of labor must take a fresh look at the claims under liberalized standards adopted by congress in 1977. the appeals court applied the ruling to miners who failed to exhaust their administrative remedies or who missed deadlines for filing court appeals
the appeals court said miners seeking benefits ``have encountered enormous frustration in the processing of their claims due to administrative delays and determinations under improper standards. congress has repeatedly attempted to ease the burden of proof of disability and to expedite black lung claims.''
the justice department said the ruling would force the labor department ``to embark on a potentially enormous reopening of closed cases that will impose a massive administrative burden. the records for approximately 94,000 claims would have to be retrieved and analyzed'' if the appeals court ruling were to apply nationwide
the 8th circuit court has jurisdiction in north and south dakota, minnesota, nebraska, iowa, arkansas and missouri
congress has created a special fund to pay off claims for miners with black lung disease, also known as pneumonconiosis
coal mine operators owe the government some $3 billion that has been loaned to the fund from the federal treasury
the operators said the 8th circuit court ruling, if applied nationwide, could burden the industry with $13.6 billion in additional payments
the u.s. treasury ``will be required to borrow the money to pay these claims until the coal industry is able to do so, if that day ever comes.''
in another dispute over black lung benefits, the supreme court in december made it easier for mining companies to block the award of some disability benefits. that decision upheld a labor department rule that miners are not entitled to an interim presumption they were disabled by the disease based on a single piece of medical evidence
the cases acted on today are pittston coal group vs. sebben, 87-821, and whitfield vs. sebben, 87-827. from mother.</note>
police are getting numerous calls from people who say they have seen a 4-week-old girl kidnapped from her mother's home, but so far officers have turned up no suspects
rachael ann white was taken friday when her grandmother left the room while interviewing a woman for a babysitting job
the phone has been ringing steadily at the colorado springs police department with reports from area residents who say they have been the infant with the woman who kidnapped her, but so far police have been unable to trace the infant or her abducter, officer mike stewart said today
cora abbott, mother of the missing baby, said authorities won't tell her specifically ``what they're working on for fear i'll get my hopes up and then it'll turn out to be nothing.''
the most important thing we have is the composite (drawing) of the female suspect. that person has to stop somewhere for gas, groceries. there's got to be someone out there who has information on that person,'' police lt. joe vernier said sunday
no ransom has been sought, police said late sunday
abbott, 27, was working when the abduction occurred. her mother, evelyn reed of canon city, told police she was interviewing a woman for a babysitting job at her daughter's home when the telephone rang
reed said she handed the baby to the woman and went into another room to answer the phone. when she returned the woman was gone
the woman was described as hispanic with reddish-tinted black hair, 5-feet-6 tall, 150 pounds, and 40 to 45 years old. atorney, with other cases, comment.</note>
the supreme court today threw out an appeal by seven tennessee families who say their religious freedom was violated when their children were exposed to ``godless'' public school textbooks
it also agreed to study a key affirmative action issue _ the power of local governments to require minority participation in public works projects
and it agreed to judge the validity of a federal law creating independent counsels to investigate alleged wrongdoing by high-ranking executive branch officials
it was justice anthony m. kennedy's first day on the court, which was at full strength for the first time since last june 26 when justice lewis f. powell retired
the justices, without comment, let stand a ruling that requiring the fundamentalist christian children to read the books was constitutional
today's action essentially ends a widely publicized case some have called scopes ii, a comparison to the furor surrounding the 1925 prosecution of john scopes in tennessee for teaching evolution
the controversy began in 1983, when the hawkins county board of education adopted a new reading list for students in grades 1-8. pupils initially were allowed to read from other textbooks if they desired, but the school board later eliminated that alternative
all county schoolchildren were required to read the chosen textbooks or leave public school
the seven families who filed the appeal acted on today sued the county school board in late 1983, listing more than 300 objections to the assigned readings
the lawsuit objected on religious grounds to themes or passages in such works as ``the wizard of oz'' and ``cinderella,'' science fiction by isaac asminov, fairy tales by hans christian andersen and stories by anthropologist margaret mead, among others
the lawsuit said the books in dispute violated the families' beliefs by teaching evolution, secular humanism, the occult, feminism and other beliefs, theories or philosophies they consider godless
a federal trial judge ruled for the families, finding that their religious freedom had been violated and awarding them $50,000 in damages
he ruled that the children should have been allowed to ``opt out'' of the reading program while enjoying the rest of the public school curriculum
the 6th u.s. circuit court of appeals reversed that ruling and threw out the families' lawsuit
the only conduct compelled ... was reading and discussing the material ... and hearing other students' interpretation of those materials,'' the appeals court said. ``what is absent from this case is the critical element of compulsion to affirm or deny a religious belief or to engage or refrain from engaging in a practice forbidden or required in the exercise of (any child's) religion.''
in seeking supreme court review, lawyers for the families said the case ``presents a classic confrontation between parents and public school officials over the education of children.''
they said children should not be required to read religiously offensive books as a condition of remaining in school
the appeal likened the families' objections to those made by jehovah's witnesses families that sparked the supreme court's 1943 decision striking down a west virginia law that required all public school students to participate in the daily recitings of the pledge of allegiance
the appeal added, ``the rule emerging from (the 6th circuit ruling) is that children can be forced to read books which violate their sincere religious beliefs so long as they are not forced to believe the contents of what they have read.''
tennessee attorney general w.j. michael cody said expressed pleasure at the decision and said ``any alternative disposition would have been the cause of chaos in the school system.''
but mike farris, attorney for concerned women of america who represented the east tennessee families, called for the removal of all born-again christian children from the public school system as a result of the decision
in the affirmative action case, the justices said they will hear an appeal by richmond, va., officials seeking to revive a so-called set-aside program for construction industry businesses owned by minorities
the 4th u.s. circuit court of appeals ruled last september that the city's preferential treatment for minority businesses approved in 1983 is an unconstitutional form of reverse discrimination
setting the stage for a major constitutional decision over independent counsels, the justices said they will review an appeals court ruling that the watergate-era law impermissibly gives presidential powers to the federal courts
the decision, expected by july, will affect the criminal conviction of former white house aide michael k. deaver and the stalled investigation of ex-justice department official theodore b. olson
in a separate order, the court rejected marine lt. col. oliver north's latest attempt to block an investigation of his role in the iran-contra affair. it let stand a ruling that north may not halt the criminal investigation by independent counsel lawrence e. walsh by challenging its legality in a civil lawsuit
in other action, the court:
_ refused to let a texas hospital withhold the names of its blood donors from a woman who says her baby daughter contracted aids after receiving transfusions
the court, without comment, let stand a ruling that the donors' privacy rights do not override belinda jackson's need to find out their identities in her wrongful-death lawsuit against the hospital
_ agreed to hear appeals by the reagan administration and coal mining companies seeking to block the possible award of billions of dollars in black lung disease benefits to thousands of miners
the court said it will review a ruling that the government must reopen some previously rejected claims for benefits
_ let stand a ruling that drastically limits the power of communities to regulate cable television and raises doubts about the constitutionality of a key federal law governing cable operations
the court, citing a lack of jurisdiction, turned away an appeal by two california cities barred from enforcing public access and other rules challenged by a cable operator
_ agreed to decide when police need court warrants before searching from helicopters for marijuana growing in fenced-in yards
the justices said they will study a florida supreme court ruling that a helicopter search by sheriff's deputies in pasco county four years ago violated the right of privacy
the textbook case is mozert vs. hawkins county public schools, 87-1100
president reagan will hold a news conference wednesday night, his first formal meeting with reporters in four months, it was announced today
the press conference will be in the east room at 8 p.m. est. white house spokesman marlin fitzwater said reagan would open the session with a prepared statement and then answer questions for 30 minutes
reagan's last news conference was on oct. 22
a videotape by lt. col. william r. higgins on behalf of demands by his captors was ``obviously ... made under duress,'' the white house said today
presidential spokesman marlin fitzwater said the tape had been viewed by members of the national security council and white house staff but he did not believe president reagan had seen it
obviously it was made under duress,'' fitzwater said. ``we continue to call for the immediate and safe release of colonel higgins as well as other hostages in lebanon. we are not going to give in to the demands of terrorists. we will continue to pursue all avenues for his release.''
when asked if reagan had any reaction, the spokesman said, ``you know the president's deep convictions about colonel higgins and all the hostages, but we want to avoid saying anything that could exacerbate the situation.'' comment in top 9 grafs, picking up in 5th graf pvs, the 4,067; subs 9th graf pvs, massachusetts gov.</note>
democratic presidential contender michael dukakis said today at the white house that the reagan administration's anti-terrorist policy is worthless because of arms dealing with iran. in the midwest republican bob dole taunted george bush for refusing to compete in minnesota and south dakota
dukakis, speaking to reporters after a national governors' association meeting with the president, said, ``i'd have a much tougher, and much more consistent anti-terrorist policy.''
the massachusetts governor, referring to the sale of arms to iran during secret negotiations to free american hostages, said, ``we'll be living with the consequences of what happened in 1985 for a long time.''
you never, ever make concessions to terrorism. if you ever do it, then your policy is worthless. and that's what we did,'' said dukakis
asked about dukakis' statement, white house spokesman marlin fitzwater said, ``i think it's very dangerous to make terrorism a political issue, especially when you're talking about specific episodes
vice president bush, who has said repeatedly he supported reagan's iran initiative but was involved with few details, was campaigning in south carolina today. but dole, in duluth, minn., was suggesting bush wasn't where he should have been
minnesota and south dakota, the next two events on the long road to the 1988 presidential nominations, vote on tuesday
we're ready to do well here tomorrow. we're here to play,'' dole told supporters in duluth today
i don't know where george bush is,'' dole said. ``i didn't find him yesterday in wyoming. couldn't find him in south dakota. couldn't find him in minnesota. must be somewhere. and these are very important states. later today we're going to send him a map of minnesota so at least he gets a little idea where it is.''
among the democrats, richard gephardt, who also finished first in iowa, is bidding for a strong showing in south dakota's democratic straw poll to give him a boost as the campaign moves toward the super tuesday showdown on march 8
the 4,067 minnesota caucuses are the first step toward choosing 78 delegates to the democratic national convention, while on the republican side caucus attendees will mark a non-binding straw ballot to express their presidential preference
in south dakota's primary, republican voters will determine allocation of 18 convention delegates, while the democrats will hold a beauty contest ballot that will not have a binding effect on who gets the state's national convention delegates
bush, faced with the potential of a repeat of the iowa results in which midwesterner dole was a big winner, is concentrating on the south where he hopes to cripple the kansas senator's effort
dole is a strong favorite in south dakota, while minnesota is shaping up as a three-way fight between dole, rep. jack kemp of new york and former television evangelist pat robertson
dukakis, winner of the new hampshire democratic presidential primary, is campaigning hard in both these upper midwest states in an effort to prove he can win support outside his native new england
after an appearance at the national governors association meeting in washington, including a session with president reagan, dukakis was flying to minnesota to campaign
on his way into the white house for a black-tie dinner sunday night, dukakis quipped, ``i'm just looking the place over, that's all.'' asked where he hoped to be next year, dukakis replied, ``i hope right here
gephardt, who has made tough action to correct trade imbalances a cornerstone of his campaign, got a blow from his house colleagues when words came out they planned to scuttle his legislation that would impose sanctions on countries that maintain large trade surpluses with the united states through unfair practices
we're going to dump it because it's bad policy,'' said rep. sam gibbons, d-fla., chairman of the trade subcommittee of the house ways and means committee
i'm going to fight for my amendment,'' said gephardt, when told of the plan
much of the sniping between presidential rivals was being done by long distance
sen. albert gore jr. of tennessee, who made little effort in iowa and not much more in new hampshire while pursuing a southern strategy for the democratic nomination, was interviewed on the nbc show ``meet the press'' on sunday and got in jabs at both dukakis and gephardt
the senator attacked gephardt for shifting positions. ``it's not a case of just having one or two or three issues where he has changed 180 degrees,'' said gore. ``there is a long, long list of issues.''
turning to dukakis, gore said the governor has not had ``a single day's experience in foreign policy.''
dukakis' spokesman leslie dach quickly retorted that ``al gore's never had a day of experience balancing a budget or building an economy.''
gephardt was attacking dukakis in ads running in south dakota that criticize the massachusetts governor for not supporting farm legislation sponsored by gephardt and iowa sen. tom harkin. the ads also take a shot at dukakis for once suggesting in iowa that farmers ought to consider diversifying into such crops as belgian endive
the ads drew retorts from dukakis supporters in both minnesota and south dakota
a new low in south dakota presidential politics,'' said state sen. roger mckellips, a co-chairman of dukakis' south dakota campaign
after his surprising second-place finish in the iowa caucuses, robertson was considered a strong contender in minnesota where caucus organization is once again important
the former evangelist was in spartanburg, s.c., on sunday and told a crowd of about 4,000 at a church dedication that ``the problem facing america is not a government problem but a moral problem.'' to update with comment from falwell, new info from cbn.</note>
pentecostal leaders and worshipers expressed sympathy, jim bakker offered advice, tammy bakker cried and jessica hahn said she was shocked after tv evangelist jimmy swaggart quit his pulpit because of a reported sex scandal
swaggart tearfully told his congregation in baton rouge, la., on sunday that he would leave his ministry ``for an undetermined, indeterminate period of time'' because he had sinned
many members of the congregation gathered around swaggart after the service to cry, pray and hold hands
i think he's truly repentant. and i think he's set a tremendous example for all of us of what true repentance is about,'' said congregant evelyn murray
swaggart said the future of his ministry was up to the lord and officials of his denomination, the assemblies of god, who reportedly were reviewing photographs purporting to show swaggart and a prostitute entering and leaving a motel room
church officials and congregants praised the candor of the evangelist, whose broadcasts reach into more than 100 countries and whose ministry had an income estimated at $142 million in 1986
forest h. hall, secretary-treasurer of the assemblies' he and his wife, tammy, were ``kind of sick to our stomachs'' over the news of swaggart's problems and added, ``our heart goes out to them and their family
my advice to jimmy would be don't do anything for about a month and just pray, and then make decisions. i made a very bad mistake by making decisions too quick,'' bakker said
bakker resigned from his ptl ministry in march and later was defrocked by the assemblies of god after admitting to a sexual encounter with miss hahn, a church secretary
mrs. bakker said she cried when she heard about swaggart's troubles. ``i just felt like i didn't want anyone to suffer the way our family has had to suffer this last year,'' she said sunday. ``we love him and we're praying for him.''
the rev. jerry falwell, who took over the ptl ministry for eight months after bakker left, said: ``i am deeply saddened over this tragedy. with the credibility crisis in recent days involving wall street, the world of politics and the arena of religion, many sincere people have had their faith shattered.''
david clark, the trustee of ptl appointed by u.s. bankruptcy court, said, ``it's hard to assess the impact on the so-called electronic church. i'm sure our telephones will tell us tomorrow what they're thinking.''
miss hahn, who accepted secret payments from ptl to cover up her encounter with bakker, said she expected swaggart's troubles to affect contributors
when they turn on the tv, they're going to see a preacher and wonder if this offering is paying hush money or for a prostitute ... i just feel bad,'' she said
miss hahn said she had heard months ago swaggart was going to be involved in the current controversy, but when she learned of his public confession, ``i almost fell on the floor.''
what shocked me was that he resigned. i feel really bad about this. it hit me. i think that there's too many preachers hanging vendettas over each other,'' she said in a telephone interview from the playboy mansion where she lives in los angeles. highway,'' to update with highways reopened.</note>
a forest fire sparked by a hiker's campfire and fanned by 90 mph gusts slowed today after threatening up to 100 houses near boulder, colo., and a wind-whipped 2,400-acre blaze in montana destroyed at least four houses
no injuries were reported
roads in colorado's sunshine canyon area were closed late sunday and occupants of one apartment building near the blaze voluntarily left the building, as did residents of five homes. but no evacuations were ordered and the roads were reopened today
the fire grew to more than 200 acres of grass and light timber by early today, the boulder county sheriff's department said
the area was under a high wind warning with 90 mph gusts reported. wind had been expected to reach 100 mph today, but at 3 a.m. it subsided to gusts of no more than 30 mph and there was an early morning calm of 6 mph, the national weather service said
the fire has laid down considerably since last night,'' said firefighter john gregg. ``it's not contained in the sense that there is no fire line around the fire completely, but it's not spreading out of control as it was last night when the winds were high.''
strong wind blew through much of the rockies on sunday. afternoon and evening wind gusted to 65 mph in cody, wyo., and near calgary, alberta, chinook wind forced postponement of the final heats of the men's two-man bobsled competition at the winter olympics
the colorado fire started on boulder's mountain park land in sunshine canyon and threatened 80 to 100 homes, said sheriff's spokesman brian leach
i don't know of one that has threatened as many structures as this one,'' he said
warm, dry and windy conditions existed just before the fire was reported about 5 p.m. sunday. no buildings had burned by early today, as the fire burned about one-half mile southwest of boulder memorial hospital
about 100 firefighters battled the blaze
residents of suburban sunshine canyon were asked to be ready to leave their homes in case the fire crossed a ridge into their area, the sheriff's department said
one family evacuated that subdivision sunday night, and four families in boulder did so by today, according to reports from the scene
as flames topped a ridge above one neighborhood, homeowners hooked up garden hoses to spray their roofs and started packing
i'm scared to death,'' said ne resident patricia grant
colorado highway 119 through the fire area was closed overnight between boulder and nederland, as were two other roads, but they were reopened today
sheriff's sgt. ernst l. little said a 30-year-old hiker told police he had started a campfire that apparently caused the blaze
in southwestern montana, a grass fire whipped by gusts up to 50 and 70 mph raced across 2,400 acres south of whitehall and destroyed four houses before being brought under control early today, said dan fisher, assistant chief of the whitehall volunteer fire department
firefighters from at least 10 volunteer fire departments in the rural area northwest of yellowstone national park battled the blaze, assisted by volunteers from the forest service, the department of state lands and two mining companies
about two dozen families endangered by the fire were evacuated, but might be able to return to their homes later today, fisher said. emergency kitchens were set up in two whitehall churches to feed homeless and firefighters, and emergency sleeping space was provided at the high school gymnasium and in private homes
the houses that burned were scattered rural residences
the wind ``is as bad as i've ever seen it,'' said glen hanson, a trapper who lives on the south edge of town. ``the ... stuff was going faster than you could run.''
whitehall fire chief dale davis said the blaze started sunday when a cottonwood tree was blown over and severed a montana power co. line two miles south of whitehall
flames estimated at 20 to 30 feet high licked the tops of trees along the jefferson river, and jefferson county fire warden doug schmitz said the fire jumped the river
the fire charred an area three miles wide and two miles long, and firefighters said some ranchers cut barbed wire fences to set their cattle, horses and sheep free ahead of the racing flames
sandi patti was chosen today as a finalist for her seventh straight award as the gospel music association's female vocalist of the year, the association announced
miss patti also was one of five finalists for the top award, artist of the year, which she won in 1982, 1984, 1985 and 1987
in addition, she is a finalist for song of the year for the record ``in the name of the lord,'' which she co-wrote with phil mchugh and gloria gaither
joining miss patti as finalists for top female vocalist were cece winans, cynthia clawson, margaret becker and twila paris
other finalists for artist of the year are first call, larnelle harris, steve green and wayne watson
finalists for no. 1 male vocalist are bebe winans, michael w. smith, mike english, green, harris and watson
winners will be announced april 14. no pickup.</note>
fire raced through a ski resort hotel in bulgaria before dawn today, killing six people and injuring 36 others, bulgaria's official news agency reported
the news agency bta said the fire in borovets, a ski resort 22 miles southeast of sofia, began at 3 a.m
measures were taken to put out the blaze but the building was quickly engulfed in flames,'' said the bta report received in vienna. ``in the panic that followed, six people died.''
the agency said two of the dead were dutch, one was bulgarian and three had not been identified
of the 36 injured, bta said 17 were british, four soviet, five west german, seven greek, two danish and one dutch, according to bta. their names were not released
the causes of the fire are still not known,'' the news agency said, adding a commission was appointed to investigate ``the tragic accident.''
bta identified the dead dutch visitors as ``ms. ever vanderberg'' and ``mr. peter zekelenburg.'' their home towns were not made public. the name of the dead bulgarian was not reported
an unidentified man who answered the telephone at the bulgarian state tourist office in borovets said the 170-bed hotel was destroyed in the blaze. he refused to give further details about the fire
initial reports from western diplomats in sofia said britons, west germans and dutch tourists were injured when they jumped out hotel windows to escape the blaze at the moussala hotel. the diplomats, contacted by telephone from vienna, spoke on condition of anonymity
several western embassies said they had sent diplomats to borovets to try and learn more about the fire
bulgaria has recently made great efforts to encourage western tourists to visit its mountain resorts on comparatively cheap ski vacations
carol thatcher, daughter of british prime minister margaret thatcher, was a recent visitor to borovets, a picturesque village in the rila mountains. it is close to mount moussala, the highest peak in bulgaria at 9,652 feet
legislation to replace the five-member nuclear regulatory commission with a nuclear safety agency headed by a single administrator was approved monday by a senate subcommittee
sponsors of the package said the change is needed to end internal battling at the nrc, help restore public confidence in nuclear power and provide better inspection and regulation of commercial generators
the bill, worked out by sens. john breaux, d-la., and alan simpson, r-wy., also would create a nuclear reactor safety investigations board to conduct independent reviews of major accidents and safety problems at nuclear facilities
the package also sets up an inspector general to monitor internal operations of the nuclear licensing agency and create an office of investigations to look for wrongdoing by nuclear licensees
breaux said ``it is only through a program of more effective regulation that the confidence of the american people in the benefits of this technology will be restored. ..
the record amply demonstrates that the nuclear regulatory commission is a collegial body that rarely makes its most important decisions collegially,'' breaux said
discussing the commissioners, simpson said ``they don't communicate with each other.'' he said the nrc suffers from a ``pernicious diffusion of accountability and responsibility'' that produces ``indecisive, ineffective, inefficient regulation of the commercial nuclear industry.''
frank ingram, a spokesman for the nrc, said the agency had no immediate comment on the details of the legislation but added that ``a majority of the commission supports a single administrator concept.''
the bill was approved by voice vote of the environment and public works subcommittee on nuclear regulation
the spanish communist party elected julio anguita as its new secretary-general monday, ending at least temporarily the leadership crisis that has threatened the survival of the once influential party
anguita, leader of the communists of the southern andalusia region and former mayor of cordoba, was elected by the 100-member central committee at the end of the party's three-day 12th congress
in accepting the post, the 46-year-old son of an army officer called on the workers and intellectuals who have left the party to return
the congress took place amidst struggles with problems of direction and membership, which has fallen to 62,300 from a high of more than 150,000 during the 1979 general elections
under outgoing secretary-general gerardo iglesias, the party tried to broaden its appeal to include ecological and pacifist groups and to reach out to the middle class
the united left coalition, which includes the communists, now holds seven of the 350 seats in the spanish lower house of parliament, down from a peak of 20 seats held by the communists alone after the 1979 elections. correct to dmitri, sted dimitri, and to correct to ss-12, sted ss-22. picks up 6th graf, `shultz also .. .'</note>
the united states and soviet union today gave their arms control negotiators one month to complete the key provisions of a new treaty to sharply reduce their strategic nuclear weapons
the decision was taken as u.s. secretary of state george p. shultz wound up two days of talks in moscow. he said negotiators in geneva who have so far failed to make significant progress toward a 50 percent cut in long-range nuclear weapons were directed to report to him and soviet foreign minister eduard a. shevardnadze in washington march 22-23
in another development, soviet defense minister dmitri t. yazov announced the soviet union would begin to withdraw its shorter-range ss-12 missiles from east germany and czechoslovakia late this month as a ``display of goodwill.''
elimination of the missiles is required under the intermediate-range nuclear weapons treaty president reagan and soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev signed in december. the treaty has not yet been ratified in the soviet union or united states
last week the east german news agency adn reported that troops had begun dismantling ss-12s, based in waren, east germany
shultz also told a news conference the soviets indicated they would be more flexible in handling emigration applications, except for those from people who have had access to state secrets
shevardnadze confirmed ``categorically'' that only those with information the government considers important to national security would be barred from emigrating, according to shultz
earlier today, as he opened talks with shultz, gorbachev pledged to achieve peace in afghanistan and to try to reach a new nuclear arms agreement by spring
shultz and the sov ... munist party general secretary smiled broadly as they shook hands and sat down with their aides in opulent catherine's hall in the kremlin
at a picture-taking session, gorbachev said the soviets would ``do our best to achieve peace in afghanistan and to have a non-aligned, neutral afghanistan whici would have good relations with its neighors, with the united states and with the soviet union.''
at the news conference, shultz said he did not have the ``slightest doubt'' that the soviet union would leave afghanistan. but shultz, who came here saying he would seek a specific timetable, gave no evidence he had received one
an estimated 115,000 soviet troops have been in afghanistan since december 1979, backing a pro-moscow government at war with u.s.-armed moslem guerrillas
gorbachev has promised to begin a withdrawal on may 15 if the kabul government and pakistan can agree on terms of a settlement by march 15
shultz, who arrived in moscow on sunday, met until 1:30 a.m. today with shevardnadze, then held talks with premier nikolai i. ryzhkov before meeting gorbachev
after the talks, shultz did not say whether the soviets agreed to support the seven-month u.s. effort in the united nations to impose a worldwide arms embargo against iran for refusing to comply with a u.n.-ordered cease-fire in the iran-iraq war
shultz also vehemently denied that he sought soviet backing for his middle east peace initiative
i didn't come here with my hat in hand looking for support,'' he said
he said the parties in the region, arabs and israelis, would determine whether his trip to the middle east later this week will succeed
the secretary of state has questioned whether the soviet union can play a bigger role in that region because of its human rights record and its lack of relations with israel
on nuclear arms, gorbachev said ``there is still a chance'' of an agreement to reduce by half u.s. and soviet long-range nuclear weapons by the spring. the idea would be to have the pact ready for him and reagan to sign at a moscow summit
gorbachev and reagan signed an agreement in washington dec. 8 to eliminate their intermediate-range missiles, which have a range of about 300 to 3,000 miles. the current negotiations in geneva concern those with a range above 3,000 miles
the geneva talks have been held up because of disagreements over the future of reagan's ``star wars'' anti-missile program and how to verify any new arms treaty
shultz said the negotiators would have until his meeting in washington with shevardnadze to put together three draft documents dealing with verification procedures, ways to eliminate or convert the weapons and methods to help inspectors observe treaty compliance
on sunday, shultz quizzed andrei d. sakharov about human rights, arms control and soviet reforms and met with a group of jewish refuseniks to underscore u.s. concern for human rights in the soviet union
sakharov, who won the 1975 nobel peace prize for his efforts to protect human rights, met with reporters after seeing shultz
sakharov said the soviet union has not yet made enough progress to merit holding an international human rights conference. ``as a precondition for such a conference, i see the liberation of all prisoners of conscience, and the complete end of the war in afghanistan,'' he said
sakharov, a physicist, helped develop the soviet hydrogen bomb in the 1950s. he was exiled to the closed city of gorky in january 1980 for speaking out against the soviet military intervention in afghanistan
korean airlines announced monday it will ban smoking on all domestic flights beginning next month
airline officials said the ban was in line with the worldwide trend of banning smoking on flights of less than two hours. all of kal's domestic flights last less than one hour
the action will not affect kal's international flights, the officials said
until now, kal has banned smoking in half of its seats on domestic flights
the military said monday a south african pilot was missing after his plane was shot down in southeast angola during a raid on angolan and cuban forces
angola's marxist government reported ``violent combat'' in the area and said two of south africa's french-built mirage fighters were downed during low-altitude bombing runs saturday near the garrison town of cuito cuanavale
the announcement by south africa marked the second time during its five-month intervention in angola that it acknowledged losing one of its warplanes inside the country. it has been fighting in support of the unita rebel movement
military headquarters said a plane piloted by maj. edward every, 31, was downed by ground fire during a raid staged because angolan-cuban forces ``posed a potential threat'' to south african troops
angola also identified every by name but did not say whether he was dead or captured. it gave no details about the pilot of the other plane it claimed to have downed
south africa said it launched two other air attacks earlier saturday in southwest angola against guerrilla bases of the south-west african people's organization, known as swapo, in retaliation for the bombing friday of a bank in south-west africa. the death toll in the bombing rose by two to 20 monday, south-west african police said
south africa said it followed up the retaliatory air raids with mortar bombardments saturday and sunday on swapo positions. a military statement said the mortar attacks were ``successful,'' but gave no details
swapo has denied responsibility for the bank bombing. it said monday that south africa's retaliatory raids ``hit innocent civilians'' but not swapo bases
south africa occupies south-west africa, also known as namibia, in violation of a united nations resolution. its forces regularly enter angola to raid bases of swapo, which has been fighting since 1966 for namibia's independence
south africa announced nov. 11 that its troops had intervened in angola's civil war. it is widely believed that south african troops entered angola weeks earlier
unita _ the national union for the total independence of angola _ has been fighting a 12-year bush war for a power-sharing agreement with angola's government, which is backed by soviet advisers and 40,000 cuban troops
angola's president, eduardo dos santos, said sunday that 9,000 south african soldiers are deployed in angola. he said six south african planes have been shot down and 140 south african soldiers killed this year
south africa has refused to disclose the extent of its involvement in angola. it has reported the deaths of more than 30 soldiers since november, and says all its combat fatalities are announced
the military said in november that one of its warplanes crashed in angola while engaged in an attack on swapo forces. it said another plane was hit but returned to a base in namibia before crash-landing
angola's news agency, angop, quoted defense officials monday as saying south african forces renewed their attack on cuito cuanavale on saturday, two days after angola announced its forces had repelled a drive to take the strategic town. now reportedly deserted, cuito cuanavale had been the forwardmost staging point for government attacks on unita strongholds in angola's southeast corner
anolga's defense ministry said ``countless deaths'' had resulted from south african air raids on the southwestern towns of n'giva and lubango. those were the raids which south africa said were aimed at swapo bases
angop reported heavy fighting in central angola along the east-west benguela railway, and said 200 unita guerrillas were killed. seat</head>
attorney general joseph i. lieberman today officially announced his challenge of maverick republican sen. lowell p. weicker jr. in this year's senate race
weicker, 56, who announced his candidacy for a fourth term earlier this month, has made a name for himself as a liberal republican, frequently at odds with his party and president. he has championed constitutional issues and civil rights and worked against school prayer and balanced budget amendments
he squeaked into office for a third term in 1982, but says he expects this to be the biggest win of his career. early polls give him the lead but show lieberman in a good position for a challenger
lieberman, 45, a democratic former state senator who ran unsuccessfully for congress in 1980, said he'll focus on a single theme between now and november: what has weicker done for connecticut?
the populist attorney general attacked weicker for using the senate as ``a debating society'' for his own agenda, issues that don't do much for the average person
as attorney general, lieberman has seized on non-partisan consumer and environmental issues, such as grocery store coupon rip-offs, increased electric rates and dumping sewage into the connecticut river
the candidates will be determined at state party conventions this summer. so far, weicker is unopposed and lieberman has only token opposition from gary johnson, who describes himself as a veterans' rights advocate
the koala, australia's national symbol, could become extinct unless long-term plans are devised to protect its habitat, an expert on the cuddly marsupials warned monday
i am positive that if we don't take immediate action the koala, our famous `animal ambassador,' will slowly but surely slide down the inevitable path toward extinction,'' said don burnett, president of the koala preservation society
he told a three-day koala symposium at melbourne university extinction was only a matter of time as urban development erodes the creature's natural habitat
koalas are found only on the eastern coast of australia. they survive on a species of gum leaf and in recent years a venereal infection has devastated koala colonies
it is generally acknowleged that koalas were more prevalent prior to european settlement of australia in 1788, but no figures are available on their number today. ^eds: rewrites throughout to update with 90 panes broken.</head>
wind gusting to more than 50 mph hurled debris into windows at the sears tower early today, damaging 90 panes and forcing police to close streets around the world's tallest building, authorities said
but police said there were no reports of injuries from falling glass
initially, building officials reported that 19 windows were broken and six others were cracked on the east and southeast sides of the 110-story building, said ernie arms, a spokesman for sears, roebuck and co., whose corporate headquarters are in the building
a survey later in the morning by building engineers found that 90 windows were broken or cracked as the wind gusted to 56 mph, he said
they're not blown out,'' arms said. ``what happened is something flying through the air _ like a pebble from the roof of another building _ hit and broke one window and then others were damaged as that one window came down.''
the broken and cracked windows were located between the 50th and 88th floors and are among 16,000 windows in the 1,454-foot tall building
arms said authorities closed one entrance to the building, leaving two others open. and police patrolman frank daio said authorities were forced to block traffic during the morning rush hour on the four streets surrounding the building. case</head>
the supreme court today agreed to consider broadening protection for criminal defendants who claim they were denied adequate help by lawyers in filing appeals
the court said it will review a ruling that threw out an appeal by an ohio man convicted of rape, robbery and assault
the defendant, steven anthony penson, was convicted of charges stemming from a breaking and entry by three men into a montgomery county, ohio, home on aug. 4, 1984
the three intruders sexually assaulted a man and two women, and also robbed the home
after penson was convicted and sentenced to 18 to 28 years in prison, his attorney refused to file an appeal on grounds there was ``no meritorious issue'' for an appeals court to consider. lawyers for penson's two convicted co-defendants did appeal their convictions
penson's lawyer then withdrew from representing him and penson filed his own appeal
an ohio appeals court said it was troubled by the conduct of penson's lawyer. but the appeals court said, ``we find (penson) has suffered no prejudice in his counsel's failure to give a more conscientious examination of the record.''
the appeals court upheld penson's conviction
the ohio public defender's office that was later assigned to the case said in its appeal to the supreme court that penson's rights were violated
the public defender said the burden of proving penson received ineffective legal assistance in pursuing his appeal improperly was placed on the defendant. the public defender argued that penson should not be required to show specific omissions or errors to establish a presumption he received inadequate representation
penson's original lawyer, in refusing to file the appeal, failed the requirement that he state in writing the grounds that arguably could support an appeal, the public defender said
the public defender urged the supreme court to elaborate on a 1967 ruling that set some standards to judge the effectiveness of lawyers handling appeals
the case is penson vs. ohio, 87-6116
a judge today ordered that the start of gov. evan mecham's trial on criminal charges of concealing a $350,000 campaign loan be delayed until march 22
judge michael ryan of maricopa county superior court ordered the delay from the original march 9 trial date to allow both sides time for handling pretrial motions and answers
mecham is charged with six counts of fraud, perjury and filing false documents in connection with the $350,000 campaign loan made in october 1986 by tempe developer and attorney barry wolfson. willard mecham, his brother's 1986 campaign treasurer, faces three similar counts
mecham also faces a feb. 29 impeachment trial by the state senate and a may 17 recall election
assistant attorney general michael cudahy said he needed more time to reply to defense motions in the criminal case. cudahy also complained that attorneys for the mechams had not yet made required pretrial disclosures, including lists of witnesses and exhibits
the governor's lawyers were given until march 7 to file a motion seeking return of the charges to the grand jury for a new finding that enough evidence existed to support the charges
ryan today also scheduled a march 2 hearing on several motions that were filed last week by willard mecham's lawyer, michael scott, and joined today by defense attorney murray miller on behalf of the governor
those motions would remand the charges, dismiss some of the counts and require grand jurors and the prosecutor to submit to questioning. states</head>
leaders in both political parties, trying to assay the hard-to-measure strength of pat robertson, say they expect he'll win some southern republican presidential primaries on super tuesday, come in second in others and pick up a substantial share of the 700 delegates up for grabs that day
interviews by associated press reporters in the 16 states holding republican primaries or caucuses on march 8 underscore that the former television evangelist is a wild card, his strength unfathomable but clearly formidable
we've got seven phone lines and they're jammed with calls these days,'' says north carolina gop chairman jack hawke. ``people are asking questions you just don't hear a lot _ how is a precinct organized, how is a person registered. it leads me to believe they (robertson supporters) are active across the state.''
says hawke's democratic counterpart, jim van hecke: ``i think he's scared the established republican party to death.''
because many evangelical christians, the core of robertson's support, have not participated in the nominating process in the past, his strength in competition with george bush, bob dole and jack kemp is hard to gauge
a new question mark is whether the weekend confession of moral waywardness of another television evangelist, jimmy swaggart, could have any fallout on robertson, who made his fame preaching before the tv cameras
i think bush's biggest competition in the south will come from robertson,'' says political scientist merle black at the university of north carolina. ``it's not inconceivable that he could beat bush in some of these states.''
political observers report that robertson appears weak in the three non-southern republican primaries _ massachusetts, rhode island and missouri. but jennifer dunn, republican chairman in washington state, which holds caucuses march 8, says bush, dole and robertson are so closely clumped that a prediction is impossible
i wouldn't be a bit surprised to see a 30 percent robertson turnout in the delegate selection, with the other candidates splitting the rest,'' mrs. dunn says. says robertson state chairman bruce hawkins: ``we're not just going to take it, we're going to sweep it.''
south carolina, which holds its primary on march 5, three days before super tuesday, could be an early indicator of robertson's strength. observers say a strong robertson showing there could give him a big boost throughout the south. robertson claims he is ready to pull a stunner in south carolina
republican primaries or caucuses will be held on super tuesday in 12 southern states _ alabama, arkansas, florida, georgia, kentucky, louisiana, maryland, mississippi, north carolina, oklahoma, tennessee and texas. nearly a third of the gop's 2,277 convention delegates will be selected on super tuesday
i think robertson in tennessee is going to do pretty well,'' said tommy harper, tennessee campaign manager for bush. a worker at bush headquarters, speaking on condition she not be quoted by name, goes further: ``robertson is the one we are really worried about.''
arkansas state democratic executive director kip blakely, trying to assess robertson's support, says: ``remember the right to life march a couple of weekends ago? it was raining and it was a saturday morning and it was freezing. there were over 3,000 people who turned out. that's pat robertson.''
blakely predicts robertson will win the arkansas primary: ``i think its his.''
robertson will probably come in second in georgia _ if he doesn't come in first,'' says georgia gop chairman emeritus bob bell. ``you don't know how many people are out there in the invisible army and how many will come out to vote. but they're committed with a burning zeal.''
in precinct meetings 16 days ago, robertson won a plurality of delegates to the county conventions which will be held in the 10 largest counties in georgia. only counties with populations over 80,000 held the meetings. robertson chairman brant frost said robertson's support ranged from a low of 35 percent in fulton county (atlanta) to a high of 96 percent in bibb county
next door in alabama, steve french, political director of the state gop, sees no prospect of a robertson win
texas is shaping up to be a bush vs. robertson race,'' bush's son, george walker bush, said last week in texas
robertson is seen as a factor behind republican registration jumps in many states
in louisiana, robertson state director billy e. mccormack, citing a 6 percent jump in republican registration since october, says, ``we feel like we were responsible for 90 to 95 percent of them.''
you take hopkins county, a very conservative, bible-belt area which had a 16 percent increase in (republican) registration from may to october,'' observes stan b. smith, political director for the kentucky gop. ``you got to feel, if you put two and two together, that a lot of that is robertson.''
but bush's state chairman in kentucky, harold rogers, says of the robertson strength: ``essentially it's still limited to the religious conservatives. i don't see him breaking out beyond that very narrow base, except in spotty cases, here and there.''
with am-robertson's prospects
some comments from political observers about pat robertson in the super tuesday states:
north carolina: merle black, political scientist at the university of north carolina at chapel hill: ``i think bush's biggest competition in the south will come from robertson. he's a big unknown. we don't know how strong he is, but he's likely much strongerw hampshire.''
alabama: steve french, political director of the state gop: ``i have no empirical proof, but you get the impression that robertson followers, who have had phone banks working for several months, are identifying here than in ne those needing to register.''
missouri: gop chairman hillard selck: ``it does not appear to be in the cards for pat robertson to make a strong showing in missouri. he's probably going to pick up a few delegates. but you can't go around the nation and pick up a few delegates here and a few there and expect to win the nomination.''
arkansas: dorothy english, executive director of the arkansas republican party, on robertson's supporters: ``many of them are brand new. they're not used to being in the political mainstream of the republican party. in iowa, we saw that a lot of them belong to more liberal chruches like the methodists. many of them are strong, staunch traditional value people.''
vs. tarkanian, 87-1061. picks up 9th graf, `to finance...'</note>
the new managers of united press international plan no hirings, firings or changes in service for at least two months while they study the company's future, the wire service's new president said today
everything is frozen'' during the study period, paul steinle said in a news conference. the new management team has not decided on what course to follow with the financially ailing company
while steinle would not deal in specifics, he said he believes that america's news executives ``want two wire services'' but he said he still needs to talk with people in the news industry because he and others want upi to become ``a market-driven company.''
the management and a team of 15 experts will interview the staff and media executives, assess the company's financial situation and look at options for the next four to six weeks. at that time they hope to have a business plan detailing the company's future
steinle works for wnw group inc., a media investment group whose chairman is dr. earl w. brian. brian recently formed wnw, a holding company, to take control of upi from mexican publisher mario vazquez rana
brian said wnw purchased control of vazquez rana's stock for 10 years in upi for a ``substantial cash payment,'' but he would not say how much. the announcement was made late friday
brian, 45, is chairman of infotechnology corp., a new york firm with at least partial interest in 22 companies, including financial news network, a cable tv service. the companies are mostly in the area of information or venture capital
brian served as secretary of california's health and welfare agency when ronald reagan was governor and went to the 1976 republican national convention as a delegate in reagan's unsuccessful bid to defeat gerald ford. in 1974, he unsuccessfully sought the republican nomination for senate
he told the los angeles times on sunday that revitalizing upi under american ownership was an important personal goal. he added, however, that his conservative views would not influence news coverage
this thing to me is just a little deeper than an issue of turning another company around,'' brian said. ``as a conservative republican, as far as i'm concerned, upi is an extremely important asset to american people.''
giving the wire service new emphasis in such areas as financial news and sports scores, using new technologies for delivery, are being considered, he said. referring to his business interests in those areas, brian said, ``we believe that a lot of this stuff can be done directly by upi itself.''
to finance continuing losses at upi, brian said he will ask private investors to put up money
vazquez rana, who paid $41 million to acquire upi from chapter 11 proceedings in u.s. bankruptcy court in june 1986, reportedly lost a million dollars a month on upi
brian and steinle said they hoped to improve upi's marketing capabilities, and that brian's presence would help
the new managers will be ``doing it all in english,'' brian said, a reference to vazquez rana's inability to speak english
meantime, al rossiter, upi's executive editor, said that ``morale is soaring'' at upi since the new managers took over
one of the reasons brian could not purchase upi outright was an agreement that vazquez rana signed with the wire service guild giving the union the right of first refusal to buy upi
the new upi managers plan to meet later today with the wire service guild
earlier, guild negotiator and spokesman dan carmichael said the union ``wants to see upi remain an integrated, quality, competitive general international news service.''
a proxy represents a transfer of voting power represented by the ownership shares, but not the shares themselves. 02-22 0146</first>
fifty book-lovers spent their third straight day holed up inside a london public library monday to protest the library's planned closure. they passed the time reading and talking
libraries are vital to civilized life,'' said protest organizer roy charterton, 62, a marketing consultant
supporters in the street below the st. pancras reference library used a rope to hoist food supplies up to the protesters
we are sleeping on the floor and bringing food up through a window ... as we have been told if we leave we cannot get back in,'' charterton said
the sit-in began saturday and is scheduled to continue until tuesday, when camden borough councilors are due to meet
the borough blames government-demanded budget cuts for the library's closure. fight</head>
the reagan administration's long and sometimes bumpy road to filling a vacant seat on the supreme court came to an anti-climactic end on monday, justice anthony m. kennedy's first day on the bench
the four hours of subdued technical arguments in the hushed, crimson-draped courtroom were a sharp contrast to the noisy and partisan battles that preceded kennedy's feb. 3 confirmation by the senate
kennedy looked solemn as he entered the chamber, strode past the american flag, stood before the pale marble columns and took his seat at the end of the row of nine justices. that seat, on the far right as spectators face the court, is the traditional place for the high court's newest member
a slight smile crossed kennedy's face during a brief exchange with justice sandra day o'connor, seated next to him, just before chief justice william rehnquist opened the session
the former appellate judge from sacramento, calif., a man with a reputation for being deliberative and well prepared, didn't say a word until nearly an hour had elapsed. and then he asked only one question
the first argument of the four on monday's schedule concerned the state of mississippi's attempt to undertake its own cost review of the grand gulf nuclear plant near vicksburg
kennedy listened intently and took notes during the hour of technical discussion
o'connor and justice antonin scalia, the two most recent additions to the court before kennedy, were among the most aggressive questioners in the first argument
kennedy waited until its closing minutes to ask his first question from the bench of the high court
is it fair to say,'' he asked attorney john maxey, representing the state of mississippi, ``that all of the arguments that mississippi wants to present now ... could have been made before ferc, even though ferc is being asked to draw a different conclusion?''
maxey said no, but kennedy's question was answered in the affirmative by rex lee, the former solicitor general, today representing mississippi power &amp; light. ``these matters can and must be raised before ferc if they are to be raised at all,'' lee said
the next three cases involved railroad worker lawsuits against employers, a technicality concerning sex discrimination in state pension benefits and a surgeon suing fellow doctors over antitrust violations
kennedy's presence brought the court to full strength for the first time since justice lewis f. powell resigned in june. and it marked a return to business as usual following months of conflict between the administration and the senate
the senate intensely scrutinized and ultimately rejected judge robert h. bork, the administration's first nominee. its second nominee, judge douglas h. ginsberg, withdrew after revelations that he had used marijuana
although a conservative for 12 years on the federal bench, kennedy is considered more moderate than either bork or ginsburg. but little is known about his views on abortion regulation, affirmative action, church-state relations or the other politically sensitive issues on which the court is closely divided
women students on both sides of the abortion issue are uneasily sharing the yale women's center this semester after the university overrode the center's decision to exclude opponents of abortion
we've been meeting there once a week,'' said senior kelly askew, president of yale students for life. ``it's not entirely welcoming, but it's getting much better. ... there was lots of anger, bitter feelings.''
askew's group, which has about 10 members, asked the student coordinating committee of the women's center for permission to meet there last semester. the committee said no, largely because of differences over abortion
the women's center, in the basement of a campus building, provides meeting space for several organizations including the staff of the student feminist magazine aurora, the women's action coalition and a lesbian group
the pro-life stand made people uncomfortable,'' said cory margenau, a yale senior and a coordinating committee member. ``it was a very unique situation with the women's center. we've never had any groups who were supportive of pro-life opinions try to come in.''
when the coordinating committee rejected askew's group, she said she viewed it as discrimination
we asked if they were violating the yale freedom of expression policy,'' askew said. ``the center is called the yale women's center and there's no denying the fact that we were all yale women. i would have no argument if they called themselves the yale pro-abortion center.''
she added, ``there is a whole pressure here to be `pc,' to be politically correct. ... part of being pc is being pro-abortion.''
the anti-abortion group took the matter to yale's administration, and both sides met with patricia pierce, associate dean of yale college
sidney altman, the dean of yale college, made the final decision, askew and margenau said
an assistant to altman referred questions to pierce, who said the dispute ``had to do with freedom of expression and not with one's personal political views.''
pierce said that as a result of the dispute, the dean's office decided to spell out who was eligible to use the women's center: groups primarily composed of undergraduate women and concerned with women's issues
margenau said she now agrees with altman's decision that the center is yale property and should therefore be neutral, but the womens' center coordinating committee saw another issue take shape with his decision
we, the five coordinators, learned how little power we really have when it comes to a man's decision. ... the main problem was realizing who really had the power, and it was dean altman, and it was kind of a blow,'' margenau said
countered pierce: ``all the associate deans are women, and we were all in on the decision, and we thought it an excellent one.''
the reagan administration said monday a videotape by marine lt. col. william higgins in which he repeated the demands of his captors in lebanon has no validity because it was made under duress
all statements made by hostages are made under duress,'' said state department spokeswoman phyllis oakley, echoing a similar comment by white house spokesman marlin fitzwater
mrs. oakley noted that the demands, including an israeli withdrawal from its border security zone in south lebanon, are the same as those announced last friday by the organization of the opporessed on earth, one of two groups which claim to have kidnaped higgins
she also disputed a statement by peggy say, sister of the longest-held american hostage in lebanon, that the administration is displaying a double standard by working hardest to free captives seized most recently
we all can understand and sympathize with her anguish and her frustration and her sorrow over her brother's continuing captivity,'' mrs. oakley said
we're making our efforts on behalf of all the hostages. our goal is not the release of this one or that one but rather the safe return of all the hostages.''
mrs. say's brother, terry anderson, chief middle east correspondent for the associated press, was kidnapped on march 16, 1985
mrs. say contended that the u.s. government has been less vigorous in seeking out her brother than higgins, a onetime top aide to former defense secretary caspar weinberger
at the white house, fitzwater said the higgins videotape had been viewed by members of the national security council and white house staff but he did not believe president reagan had seen it
we continue to call for the immediate and safe release of colonel higgins as well as other hostages in lebanon,'' fitzwater said. ``we are not going to give in to the demands of terrorists. we will continue to pursue all avenues for his release.''
asked if reagan had any reaction, the spokesman said, ``you know the president's deep convictions about colonel higgins and all the hostages, but we want to avoid saying anything that could exacerbate the situation.''
palestinian moderates have sought permission from the plo to meet with u.s. secretary of state george p. shultz when he arrives this week to launch a new american peace initiative, arab leaders said monday
but hanna siniora, who reportedly solicited plo chief yasser arafat's approval for a meeting, said the prospects were dim because the palestine liberation organization doesn't want a palestinian delegation to meet with shultz in israel
the plo is willing to have a meet$128.8 million in the final quarter of 1987, previously had sold its retail stock brokerage operation
rothschild said it had agreed to merge its remaining operations with stern brothers &amp; co., an investment bank in kansas city, mo. stern is a wholly owned subsidary of franklin financial services inc., which in turn is owned by franklin savings of ottawa, kan
the merger ... will form a unique investment banking combination,'' said ernest fleischer, chairman of franklin savings. ``it brings together the advantages of a new york trading desk and regional distribution.''
our stern brothers clients will receive expanded underwriting and distribution capabilities. for l.f. rothschild's clients, we will provide risk management and solid financial backing,'' he added
the announcement said franklin financial would provide a 2{-year, $30 million loan to l.f. rothschild &amp; co., the broker-dealer subsidiary of l.f. rothschild holdings
in a separate announcement, rothschild holdings reported severe losses for both the fourth quarter and all of 1987
rothschild lost $128.8 million on revenues of $32.5 million in the quarter, compared with a net loss of $15.4 million on revenues of $92.4 million in the same period of 1986
for the full year, it lost $129.1 million on $461.4 million in revenues, compared with an after-tax profit of $498,000, or 3 cents per share, on $401.1 million in revenues in 1986
it said approximately $56 million of the losses resulted from arbitrage and over-the-counter trading positions held during the stock market's collapse in late october
rothschild said its planned merger with stern brothers would be subject to the approval of its stockholders and regulatory approval
it said rothschild stockholders would receive a combination of cash and preferred stock in franklin financial, based on the company's book value on march 31
morton thiokol inc. will conduct the fourth in a series of six firing tests for the space shuttle's redesigned booster rocket's nozzle-to-case joint wednesday, company officials say
the objective of the test is to evaluate performance of the joint between sections of the solid fuel booster with deliberately flawed insulation adhesive and a damaged o-ring gasket, said morton thiokol spokesman rocky raab
the test will allow engineers to evaluate the fail-safe performance of the redesigned joint,'' he said
the test, to be held at the aerospace company's wasatch operations plant 25 miles west of brigham city, is one of hundreds undertaken by morton thiokol as part of its booster redesign efforts in the wake of the jan. 28, 1986, explosion of the shuttle challenger and deaths of its seven crew members
a presidential commission blamed a leaking booster rocket seal for igniting the shuttle's huge external tank for its liquid fuel main engines
the new case-to-nozzle joint includes 100 added bolts, adhesively bonded insulation surfaces and the added o-ring
dr. john allegro, renowned for his work in deciphering the dead sea scrolls but ridiculed for his theories that western religions were based on the worship of mushrooms, has died. he was 65
allegro died at his home on feb. 17, his birthday, according to death notices and obituaries published monday. no cause of death was given. he is to be cremated tuesday
allegro was a brilliant student of semitic languages at manchester university and went on to study hebrew dialects at oxford university
in 1953, he was named to an international team formed to decipher the dead sea scrolls, which were discovered in caves at qumran on the shores of the dead sea six years earlier
the scrolls, which spanned from about 100 b.c. to 70 a.d., included the oldest known manuscripts of books from the old testament. allegro's gift for deciphering minute texts was crucial. his book, ``the dead sea scrolls,'' was published in 1956 and became a bestseller
allegro's subsequent notoriety caused derision in the scientific community but developed a cult following in the early 1970s. allegro, in his 1970 book ``the sacred mushroom and the cross,'' contended that judaism and christianity were in fact products of an ancient sex-and-mushroom cult
he theorized that jesus's last words on the cross were not a lament to god but ``a paean of praise to the god of the mushroom.''
although trained for the methodist ministry, he became a fervent anti-christian devoted to debunking the story of jesus
allegro also published a 1966 book, ``search in the desert,'' about an unsuccessful search for lost scrolls in the judean desert
he is survived by a son and a daughter. possible</note>
the supreme court today let stand a ruling that drastically limits the power of communities to regulate cable television and raises doubts about the constitutionality of a key federal law governing cable operations
the court, citing a lack of jurisdiction, turned away an appeal by two california cities barred from enforcing public access and other rules challenged by a cable operator
the court's action, which appears to have been based on narrow procedural grounds, leaves open the possibility of a subsequent appeal
the dispute was between officials of palo alto and atherton, calif., and century federal inc., the cable operator
u.s. district judge eugene f. lynch ruled last september that cable regulations adopted by the cities unconstitutionally violated century federal's free-speech rights
he threw out regulations that required century federal:
_to provide public access channels for those not connected with the cable company
_to wire the entire community to make service available to all residents
_to use a ``state-of-the-art'' system to keep pace with the latest technological advances
the judge, who previously had ordered city officials to award an operating license to century federal, called for further hearings to study franchise fee requirements adopted by the cities
palo alto and atherton officials said the ruling appears to declare unconstitutional a 1984 federal law regulating cable tv, even though the judge did not say in so many words he was invalidating the law
although lynch ``purported not to decide the constitutionality of any provision of the act, (his) decision in fact holds that numerous sections of that statute are unconstitutional,'' lawyers for the cities said
the reagan administration, in a ``friend-of-the-court'' legal brief filed by justice department lawyers, urged the court to deny the cities' appeal
the supreme court, in a 1986 ruling that has some bearing on the case acted on today, raised the possibility that communities may be barred from granting exclusive cable tv franchises
the court said cable franchise activities ``plainly implicate first amendment interests.'' but the justices stopped short of a definitive ruling on the constitutional rights of cable operators
the ruling was in contrast to earlier decisions denying a constitutional right to operate over-the-air television or radio stations
many cities award exclusive cable franchises city-wide or for various regions within the city. they also impose rules similar to those adopted by palo alto and atherton
the case is palo alto vs. century federal, 87-946
some parents of students at a school where three faculty members were shot want students to wear identification badges and be subject to random searches with hand-held metal detectors
we're feeling as though some of (the school's) rules and regulations need to be looked at,'' said ivy villafana, whose daughter attends pinellas park high school. ``if we cannot have these metal detectors, then we can have doors that lock from the outside.''
about 50 parents met sunday night to discuss ways to prevent further violence at the school
they plan to submit their ideas to the pinellas county school board during its regular meeting wednesday
school officials were not invited to sunday's meeting, but representatives from the school's parent-teacher-student association were on hand
on feb. 11 two administrators and one student teacher were wounded in an altercation with two students. assistant principal richard w. allen died of his injuries wednesday
at the meeting, one woman favored providing the school resource officer _ a pinellas park police officer assigned to the school _ with a hand-held metal detector. the officer should make random searches, she said
doesn't have to be a reason. just stop them and run them up and down,'' she said
principal marilyn heminger declined to comment specifically on any of the group's suggestions
she said she was glad to hear the meeting was positive, ``and i hope that from (the meeting) come some good things that we can work with.''
one of the two students accused in the shootings had recently been suspended for cursing a teacher
linda leotti, organizer of sunday night's meeting, told parents that other school systems she surveyed around the country send students to counselors before suspending them. she will suggest wednesday that pinellas county institute a similar policy
we want suspensions, but we want counseling,'' ms. villafana said. ``and we don't mean guidance counselors, we mean psychologists.''
if a student uses profanity when expressing frustration to a teacher, he shouldn't be suspended, she said
among the other suggestions: providing counseling for teachers and students; having a substitute resource officer when the regular officer is out; providing new carpeting to replace one with bloodstains; having a crisis-intervention team; and having a parent volunteer force patrolling hallways
angie debo, who came to oklahoma by covered wagon and became known as ``the first lady of oklahoma history,'' has died at age 98
ms. debo, of marshall, died sunday at an enid hospital, said steve lindholm, owner of abernathy funeral home in crescent
the nationally esteemed historian wrote 13 books and hundreds of articles about indian and oklahoma history. last month, gov. henry bellmon presented her with the 1987 award for scholarly distinction from the american historical association
in a new forward she wrote at age 91 for her 1949 book ``oklahoma, foot-loose and fancy-free,'' ms. debo called her home ``more than just another state.''
it is a lens in which the long rays of time are focused into the brightest of light,'' she wrote. ``in its magnifying clarity, dim facets of the american character stand more clearly revealed. for in oklahoma all the experiences that went into the making of the nation have been speeded up. here all the american traits have been intensified. the one who can interpret oklahoma can grasp the meaning of america in the modern world.''
her books include ``the rise and fall of the choctaw republic,'' ``and still the waters run,'' ``geronimo: the man, his time, his place'' and ``prairie city.''
in 1985, her portrait was hung permanently in the rotunda of the state capitol, near portraits will rogers, jim thorpe, and sequoyah
she earned the john h. dunning prize of the american historical society and the alfred a. knopf fellowship in history
a one-hour documentary on her life and work is scheduled to be broadcast next fall as part of public broadcasting's ``the american experience'' series
a funeral was scheduled for wednesday, lindholm said, adding that she had no surviving relatives
the california secretary of state's office is threatening to sue the university of southern california to get back 1,600 cartons of memorabilia left behind by former gov. edmund g. ``jerry'' brown jr., an official said monday
brown, who served two terms ending in 1982, gave the letters, memos, videotapes, pamphlets and personal correspondence to usc 5{ years ago. the collection includes about 4 million items
but secretary of state march fong eu contends his action violates a 1975 amendment to the california public records act
the amendment declares gubernatorial and legislative papers ``public records,'' although usc's chief sacramento lobbyist, former state controller houston flournoy, claims that brown's papers fall under an exception for ``personal correspondence'' and memos from the governor's legal affairs secretary
on jan. 20, mrs. eu's office sent a letter to usc threatening to sue. usc received the letter in early february, and a suit will be filed within 30 days after that unless the matter is resolved, ms. warren said
brown has indicated he chose usc as repository for the documents after the university of california at berkeley turned them down because of lack of space and the state archives balked at the former governor's insistence that the agency hire former brown aide lana beckett to oversee the collection
usc hired beckett but insists that she won the job in an open competition
mrs. eu, who as secretary of state also heads the state archives, argues that the all documents should be in the archives
brown's father, edmund g. ``pat'' brown sr., left records from his eight years as governor to uc berkeley. former gov. ronald reagan left his papers to the private hoover institution at stanford. but both those administrations preceded the 1975 law
assembly gop leader pat nolan has introduced a measure that would invalidate the 1975 law. the bill passed the assembly last year and is now in committee in the senate
the university of massachusetts chancellor on monday rejected calls to excuse students from classes or work so they could take part in a moratorium to consider racial tensions at the 25,000-student university
the university administration joins the undergraduate student senate, which represents the wide majority of students on the campus, in standing against the moratorium on classes planned by members of the graduate student senate this week,'' joseph duffey said in a statement
duffey said the school considered gaining social awareness part of education, but, ``we expect students to attend class and to gain social awareness through class.''
participating in the boycott will not excuse students from responsibility for meeting their academic obligations,'' duffey said
the moratorium, scheduled for tuesday and wednesday, was urged by students last week following settlement of a six-day occupation of a university building by minority students seeking harsher treatment of people involved in racist behavior on campus
about 300 students marched to duffey's office on friday to urge him to sanction the moratorium
the graduate student senate and the minority graduate student association called for all faculty and graduate instructors to cancel their classes, ``but still hold students responsible for the material that would have been taught.'' that book came from head of zane grey society, not grey's son.</note>
a cancer patient who has been reading zane grey books since his childhood had a dream fulfilled when columnist bob greene delivered a rare book that completes an 89-book collection of the western author
i've got something for you,'' said greene, of the chicago tribune, when he handed a small green book to 73-year-old mack landers
the book greene delivered sunday in this fort worth suburb, ``don, the story of a lion dog,'' was published 60 years ago and only about 100 copies exist in this country. it was the last of 89 books landers needed to complete his collection
landers was diagnosed with colon cancer in 1982 and has been told by doctors he has less than three months to live
greene wrote of landers' search for the book in his nationally syndicated column, and said five or six people from across the nation called offering copies. greene accepted one from dr. james h. vickers, president of the national zane grey's west society and director of the pathobiology and primatology laboratory at the national institutes of health in bethesda, md
another copy was offered by zane grey's son, loren
a pre-dawn fire monday destroyed a bulgarian ski-resort hotel that caters to foreign tourists, killing six people and injuring 36, bulgaria's official news agency bta reported
a western diplomat said a dutch woman was killed when she jumped from a window to escape the flames
bta said those injured in the fire at borovets, 22 miles southeast of sofia, were from britain, the soviet union, west germany, the netherlands, greece and denmark
it said two of the dead were dutch, one was bulgarian and three had not been identified
bulgaria has made great efforts recently to attract western tourists to its modern mountain resorts for relatively inexpensive ski vacations. borovets is bidding for the 1989 alpine skiing world championships
throughout the day, most information on the blaze at the moussala hotel came from western diplomats in sofia, the capital, and two british tour companies. bta did not issue its first full report until nearly 15 hours after the fire started
measures were taken to put out the blaze but the building was quickly engulfed in flames,'' the bta report said. ``in the panic that followed, six people died.''
the causes of the fire are still not known,'' it said, and a ``special commission has been appointed to investigate.'' bta added: ``the necessary medical aid has been provided to the injured and the rest of the tourists have been accommodated in other hotels.''
a man who answered the telephone at the state tourist office in borovets, and would not give his name, said the 193-bed alpine-style hotel was completely destroyed
reports said most victims were being treated in local clinics, but a dutch diplomat said two injured citizens of the netherlands were taken to sofia because there was no more room at the clinics
the global ski tour organization in london had 32 customers booked at the hotel, and said a representative in bulgaria acted as interpreter to help police interview the injured and others
several western embassies said they sent diplomats to borovets seeking more information about the fire and the victims
carol thatcher, daughter of prime minister margaret thatcher of britain, was a recent visitor to borovets. the picturesque village in the rila mountains is near mount moussala, at 9,652 feet the highest peak in bulgaria
the state department said monday it was ``extremely unfortunate'' that nicaraguan government cease-fire negotiators did not respond quickly enough to a new truce proposal to prevent the talks from breaking down
spokeswoman phyllis oakley also welcomed what she said was the unconditional acceptance of the proposal by the u.s.-backed contra rebels. the plan had been outlined by the chief mediator, cardinal miguel obando y bravo, during talks last week in guatemala city
the positive attitude of the contras ``further indication of the resistance's willingness to negotiate in good faith and of their desire to achieve a cease-fire,'' mrs. oakley said
she added that the sandinista government's delay in responding to the proposal apparantly led to obando y bravo's decision to break off the talks a day early
the cleric's proposal called for the sandinistas to free all political prisoners, allow complete freedom of expression and resume a dialogue with opposition parties, among other measures
nicaragua's leftist government has said the cease-fire discussions should be limited to the technical aspects of achieving a truce and that political questions should be dealt with separately
obando y bravo's decision to suspend the talks caught the sandinista negotiators by surprise. they said they had been ready to accept his plan in principle and to continue the discussions
a u.s. warship, arriving in the persian gulf on monday as the newest addition to the navy's escort squadron, fired machine-gun warning shots to chase away two fishing boats that ventured too close
although the craft proved to be harmless, a u.s. official said, the boats at first appeared to be boston whaler-type vessels, often used by iran's revolutionary guards to attack commercial shipping
the official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the trenton fired after the boats approached within 3,300 yards of a u.s. convoy, 30 miles off the coast of dubai, at about 3 p.m
he said, ``trenton ... issued two verbal warnings which were not heeded, and when the boats came within 3,000 meters, it fired a flare and bursts of .50-caliber machine-gun fire, at which time the craft stopped and then moved off to the northeast.''
a helicopter sent up by the missile frigate john a. moore, accompanying the trenton, ``confirmed through observation that both were fishing boats, and neither was hit or damaged,'' he added
while no u.s. warship has been directly attacked by iran, several have fired warning shots when unidentified small boats approached too close or ignored verbal cautions
in one such incident last year, an indian fisherman was killed by gunfire from a navy frigate
american ships also have fired warning shots or come close to firing missiles at iraqi warplanes flying too close during attack sorties against iranian coastal oil shipping
a delegation of u.s. officials is visiting baghdad to discuss the problem with iraqi military leaders
the 17,000-ton trenton sailed through the strait of hormuz hours earlier to join the middle east force, the navy's flotilla in the gulf. it carried a 400-man u.s. marine combat unit and a contingent of marine attack helicopters
u.s. officials said the group was not considered one of the navy's gulf ``transits'' as it did not include any of the kuwaiti tankers reflagged by washington last year for protection from iranian attack
the trenton, one of the ships involved in a current realignment of navy units in the region, is a replacement
when the reshuffling is completed, probably within a week, it will leave the gulf-based force at 16 ships, including six mine sweepers, down one from its maximum strength of 17
next saturday, rear adm. anthony a. less will take over command of the gulf force from rear adm. harold j. bernsen
u.s. officials said the marines aboard the trenton would provide security for naval operations in the gulf, where the 7{-year-old iraq-iran war has seriously affected commercial shipping
iran's official news agency said a prototype of the ``first iranian-made airplane'' made a successful test flight monday and would soon go into mass production
it said the ``multiple-purpose'' aircraft can be adapted for military use, and all parts were made in iran by experts affiliated with the revolutionary guards corps. each plane will ``save $500,000 in foreign exchange,'' said the islamic republic news agency
iran also announced that at the orders of ayatollah ruhollah khomeini, 1,139 prisoners have been released as part of an amnesty to mark the ninth anniversary of the islamic revolution
irna said the detainees released in various cities in iran were ``repentant'' and had been pardoned
it did not say what they were jailed for or on what day they were released
iran has already reported freeing more than 1,000 other prisoners following the anniversary of the islamic seizure of power on feb. 11, 1979. counsel law</head>
the supreme court said monday it will judge the validity of a federal law that lets independent counsels investigate alleged crimes by high-ranking executive branch officials
the court also rejected the latest appeal of one target of such an investigation _ marine lt. col. oliver l. north
the court's decision, expected by july, will resolve a major constitutional dispute and will affect the criminal conviction of former white house aide michael k. deaver and the rejuvenated investigation of ex-justice department official theodore b. olson
the decision also could affect other investigations by special prosecutors appointed under the law
the justices allowed special prosecutor alexia morrison to resume her investigation of olson, raising the possibility that grand jury indictments could be handed down before the high court's ruling
a federal appeals court ruled that the watergate-era law creating independent counsels impermissibly gives presidential appointment powers to the federal courts. the appeals court had derailed morrison's investigation
a three-judge panel of the u.s. circuit court of appeals in washington ruled, by a 2-1 vote last month, that the independent counsel provisions of the ethics in government act of 1978 were an unconstitutional encroachment of the exclusive power of the president to enforce criminal laws
under the law, a special court appoints independent counsels, or special prosecutors, at the request of the attorney general to investigate alleged criminal wrongdoing
morrison is investigating allegations that olson, a former assistant attorney general, lied to congress in 1983 during a dispute over the environmental protection agency's cleanup program for toxic waste
the appeals court ruling followed a challenge by olson and others to morrison's authority to subpoena their testimony before a federal grand jury
the jan. 22 ruling could jeopardize last month's perjury conviction of former presidential aide michael k. deaver for lying to a grand jury and to a house subcommittee that investigated his lobbying activities
but the appeals court ruling in olson's case is not expected to interfere with the work of lawrence e. walsh, the independent counsel investigating the iran-contra arms and money affair
the supreme court last month refused to consider north's challenge to the parallel appointment walsh accepted last year from the justice department
north was fired as a white house aide after his role in the diversion of money from secret iranian arms sales to the nicaraguan contra rebels was revealed
a different three-judge panel of the appeals court in washington upheld the constitutionality of the backup appointments last year
independent counsel james c. mckay, who is prosecuting former presidential aide lyn c. nofziger on illegal lobbying charges, also accepted a backup appointment
but morrison and whitney north seymour, the independent counsel who prosecuted deaver, did not accept backup appointments
the north appeal acted on monday was from a ruling that barred him from halting walsh's investigation by challenging its legality in a civil lawsuit
the appeals court ruling that dismissed north's lawsuit said, ``potential criminal defendants cannot, by bringing ancillary equitable proceedings, circumvent federal criminal procedure.''
democratic presidential candidate michael dukakis derided president reagan's anti-terrorism policies on monday as worthless in light of the iran-contra affair, prompting reagan's spokesman to retort that candidates shouldn't make a hostage situation a political issue
the massachusetts governor, using the white house as a backdrop after a meeting of the national governors' association with reagan, issued a stinging critique of the administration's iran-contra involvement and the problems it might pose for the next president
asked how he would respond to the latest hostage-taking, dukakis said, ``you never, ever make concessions to terrorism. if you ever do it, then your policy is worthless. and that's what we did.''
referring to the sale of arms to iran during secret negotiations to free american hostages, dukakis said, ``we'll be living with the consequences of what happened for a long time.''
his remarks came as the administration struggled to deal with the kidnapping of another american in lebanon, lt. col. william r. higgins, a marine detailed to a u.n. truce-monitoring force
queried by reporters, dukakis said he would have ``a much tougher, and much more consistent anti-terrorist policy'' than reagan
what happened in 1985 was devastating ... to our ability to be credible when it came to putting together a very tough, no-compromise policy on terrorism,'' he said
this is international crime, pure and simple, and you fight it the way you fight crime _ with tough police work, with effective undercover operations, with military operations against terrorist base camps if necessary,'' the governor added
dukakis' remarks brought a quick rebuke from presidential spokesman marlin fitzwater
i think it's very dangerous to make terrorism a political issue, especially when you're talking about specific episodes,'' fitzwater said
the spokesman asserted that past experience has shown that ``there are any number of aspects to individual hostage-takings that can be exacerbated by political talk or media talk or political statements.''
i would simply urge caution on everyone's part, including political candidates,'' he said
besides hitting reagan's performance on terrorism, the massachusetts governor took advantage of the attention of the white house press corps to question reagan's approach to welfare reform and child care
on a strictly political topic, he also said he was heading into tuesday's south dakota and minnesota contests aiming to prove he has wider appeal than shown by his new hampshire primary victory
if i can do well out there, that will be proof positive this is a national campaign, and a national candidacy,'' he said, adding that he hoped victories there would be a boost for the multiple showdowns march 8 on super tuesday
dukakis joked that he'd used the governors' visit to look the white house over as a possible residence. ``no commuting, don't even have to take the street car, just walk to work _ it's terrific,'' he said with a broad smile
as dozens of camera and microphone-toting technicians and correspondents crowded around him on the white house lawn, dukakis even offered to ``meet with the press two or three times a week'' if he were elected
and to reporters' delight, he dangled the option of hawaiian winter vacations before the oft-traveling pack
it would be tough to top santa barbara,'' one correspondent taunted when the subject came up, noting the lush california resort town near reagan's vacation ranch
how about cape cod _ what do you think?'' asked the massachusetts governor with a grin
mild murmurs of approval were made. then, a query about his winter vacation plans
the berkshires,'' dukakis replied firmly, only to be met by silence
sensing a need to offer a new slant on the subject, the candidate quickly shifted gears
on the other hand, my wife expressed a preference for maui the other day,'' he offered
cheers erupted from the crowd
gov. evan mecham's criminal trial on charges of concealing a $350,000 campaign loan was delayed by a judge monday until march 22
the delay from the original march 9 trial date gives both sides time to handle pretrial motions and answers, said judge michael ryan of maricopa county superior court
mecham also faces a may 17 recall election and a feb. 29 impeachment trial by the state senate
he is charged with six counts of fraud, perjury and filing false documents in connection with a $350,000 campaign loan made in october 1986 by tempe develper and attorney barry wolfson. willard mecham, his brother's 1986 campaign treasurer, faces three similar counts
the governor and brother did not answer reporters' questions when they entered and left the courtroom
assistant attorney general michael cudahy told ryan he needed more time to reply to defense motions. cudahy also complained that attorneys for the mechams had not yet made required pretrial disclosures, including lists of witnesses and exhibits
cudahy said the mechams' lawyers made ``more or less a grandstand play'' by saying in court monday that they were ready to go to trial when they had not made the disclosures
the governor's lawyer, murray miller, said those disclosures would be made this week
ryan said he would schedule a hearing later on several defense motions to remand the charges to the state grand jury, dismiss some of the counts and require grand jurors and the prosecutor to submit to questioning
willard mecham's lawyer, michael scott, has claimed in court papers that attorney general bob corbin's office manipulated the grand jury process by having most testimony presented to a state grand jury that met last fall, but holding the matter over for a new grand jury which indicted the mechams on jan. 5
corbin's office has contended, however, that the matter was given to a new grand jury to avoid possible bias because three members of the previous grand jury had signed petitions to recall mecham
miller told ryan that he was prepared to have both the criminal and impeachment trials simultaneously although he indicated he may ask a court to delay the senate's impeachment trial. however, he did not say when or where he would file such a motion
deborah raffin had hoped for an anonymous vacation in the people's republic of china, but on her first day there, throngs of chinese ran up to her shouting, ``nightmare, nightmare.''
it's funny now, but it wasn't funny then,'' the actress said recently. ``at first i thought it was because of my blonde hair and obvious western looks. then i started to think that maybe i was somebody's idea of a nightmare.''
what actually caused the commotion was the chinese people recognizing her from the 1976 film, ``nightmare in badham county,'' in which she played a hitchhiker hounded by a lecherous sheriff. it was a major box office hit in china
that visit six years ago began a love affair between miss raffin and china, and she continued to return, recently to film the $20 million miniseries, ``noble house,'' airing this week on nbc. she plays a tough corporate officer who falls for the head of a trading house, played by pierce brosnan
i had been to hong kong about a dozen times before the filming and took the role as an excuse to go back,'' miss raffin said. ``i feel very comfortable there. it's like the manhattan of asia, so colorful and romantic with a tremendous energy level. it's a world few of us in the united states know anything about.''
a deadly mix of rock and mud threatened hillside homes during a fourth day of violent rains monday which have killed at least 75 people in the rio area
the new danger slowed efforts to reach a buried roomful of children and prompted the mayor to order hundreds of residents to ``get out while there's still time.''
mud-caked survivors flashed thumbs-up signs as they were carted away on stretchers, while rescuers moved gingerly about the unstable hillsides in the city
scores have died there since the heavy rains began triggering sporadic floods and mudslides on friday
civil defense officials warned that huge boulders and rain-loosened earth on many hillsides presented an extreme risk of new avalanches, particularly in the crowded shantytown slums that line the hills
mayor roberto saturnino braga went on television to order hundreds of slum dwellers to evacuate their high-risk homes
get out while there's still time. you may lose your possessions, and we regret that. but we're talking about your lives,'' braga said
in the working-class north rio district of abolicao, rescue workers used sledgehammers and spikes to break up concrete slabs of a three-story apartment building that collapsed under a mudslide sunday night, killing at least nine residents
fourteen people were taken alive from the rubble. television crews broadcasting live from the site showed survivors covered with yellow-brown mud flashing thumbs-up signs as they were borne away on stretchers
civil defense spokeswoman sonia hadid said workers expected to find as many as 11 bodies under the rubble
there was a children's party going on in one of the apartments when it collapsed, so we don't know how many were in there,'' ms. hadid said by telephone
in the santa teresa district near downtown rio, 80 firemen searched for bodies under the debris of a hillside clinic for the elderly that was hit by a mud avalanche late friday. a three-story pavillion of the clinic collapsed and at least 11 patients died
rescue efforts were slowed by rain and by a warning from engineers that a new mudslide could occur at any moment in santa teresa
they have to work carefully, using blowtorches and sledges, removing the metal, concrete and wood. when it starts to rain, they stop. otherwise the whole hillside could come down,'' ms. hadid said
the spokeswoman said the death toll of 75 included only bodies that had reached the morgue and ``the final total certainly will be higher.''
the number of dead varied almost daily as civil defense authorities struggled to get a clear picture of the tragedy's human toll
nearly 9,500 were without homes, a drop from previous days because some flood victims began moving back to their dwellings
state health officials began a massive vaccination campaign against tetanus and leptospirosis, a sometimes fatal infection caused by water contaminated with rat urine and droppings. earlier reports indicated erroneously that leprosy was feared
public service messages on radio and television urged people not to walk barefoot through flood water and to boil their drinking water or treat it with chlorine
braga declared a state of public calamity in rio and estimated the damage at $150 million
the weather bureau said the unusually heavy rain was caused by an antarctic cold front. the forecast was for more rain and gradual clearing by wednesday
earlier this month, 207 people died in flooding and mudslides around the state and 13,000 were left homeless
sen. strom thurmond, r-s.c., on monday endorsed bob dole for president, saying the senate republican leader ``is a common sense conservative and is the most electable of all the candidates.''
thurmond, the most senior gop senator, endorsed dole at a capitol hill news conference. in so doing, he broke with other south carolina republicans, including gov. carroll campbell, who have endorsed vice president george bush. lee atwater, bush's campaign director, is from south carolina and has helped him get support there
the south carolina republican primary is on march 5
thurmond, who ran for president himself in 1948, declined to say why he considered bush less electable than dole. he would not criticize any of the candidates, he said
dole was campaigning monday in minnesota and did attend the announcement
presidential candidate michael dukakis dangled the option of winter trips to hawaii before the white house press corps monday in a joking effort to endear himself to the journalists
after he and other governors met with president reagan, dukakis talked with reporters on the white house lawn and was told that members of the press corps tell each other to ``vote your vacation'' in any presidential contest
got to top santa barbara,'' taunted one correspondent, noting the lush california resort town near the ranch where reagan has often vacationed
how about cape cod _ what do you think?'' asked the massachusetts governor
mild murmurs of approval and a query about winter vacations greeted his suggestion
the berkshires,'' dukakis replied firmly, only to be met by silence from the dozens gathered about him
sensing he needed to offer more, the candidate quickly added: ``on the other hand, my wife expressed a preference for maui the other day.''
cheers erupted from the crowd
professional politicians do a better job of selecting qualified presidential nominees than the current year-long system of primary elections, former sen. john tower says
tower added that televised presidential debates are no better than ``east texas hog-calling contests.''
the current system is a ``very, very imperfect way to select a national candidate,'' tower said in comments sunday at a convention of the national utility contractors association
in the past, he said, ``the smoke-filled room screened out the candidates who were least competent.''
tower, a republican, said today's system can result in a nominee who has the best commercials and who articulates his ideas best, but who may not be the best president
he also criticized the news media, saying, ``i don't think the mass media are capable. you don't get a balanced assessment from sensational press stories. the mass media have become too strong. on the whole, the media are consumed with an arrogance of power.''
the president of moral majority said monday that television evangelist jimmy swaggart's problems will likely have a negative impact on the republican presidential campaign of former television preacher pat robertson
jerry c. nims, president of the conservative lobbying group, said swaggart's tearful confession and his stepping down from his own tv ministry sunday will not affect robertson's core of supporters
however, the swaggart controversy might change the minds of supporters who had been leaning toward the republican hopeful
he (robertson) has a large base of support'' that wouldn't be affected by the fall of a televangelist, nims told a news conference called by a group of conservative organizations on another subject. ``but it might have an impact outside,'' he said
the moral majority president said robertson's core of followers remains strong, but he may ``well lose some of the fringe'' supporters
nims noted that the minsters who have fallen in the past year, including jim bakker _ are members of the charismatic group, which differs from moral majority and robertson followers
for much of our constituency, it does not have an impact,'' he said
rep. mario biaggi's violation of house ethics constituted ``criminal conduct of a most serious nature going to the heart of his representational responsibilities'' and warranted expulsion, the house committee on standards of official conduct said in a report released monday
the committee, which recommended thursday that biaggi, d-n.y., be expelled from the seat he has held for 20 years, explained why it had elected to exercise its most serious punishment
the facts and circumstances giving rise to the violations, being of the most serious nature, warrant the imposition of the most stringent sanction available to the house of representatives,'' the 148-page report said
accordingly, the committee submits that expulsion is the only sanction appropriate to the violations committed by representative biaggi.''
biaggi was not in his office monday, but he said thursday that he intended to vigorously fight the expulsion recommendation
biaggi, 70, was convicted in september of illegally accepting a paid florida vacation from meade esposito, the former brooklyn, n.y., democratic leader. esposito was seeking government help for coastal dry dock and repair co., a financially troubled brooklyn shipyard that owed $280,000 in premiums to esposito's insurance brokerage firm
biaggi was also convicted of illegally crossing state lines to accept the gratuity and obstructing justice by trying to influence how esposito answered the fbi's questions. he was sentenced to 2{ years in prison and a $500,000 fine, and is free pending appeal
the ethics committee concluded that biaggi violated rules against discrediting the house; accepting impermissible gifts from a person or organization with a direct or indirect interest in legislation; failing to report a gift worth $250 or more on his financial disclosure form; and accepting a favor or benefit that might be construed as influencing the performance of government duties
after reviewing evidence from biaggi's trial, the committee ``found that the offenses for which representative biaggi was convicted involved criminal conduct of a most serious nature going to the heart of his representational responsibilities.''
the committee's resolution to expel biaggi must be approved by two-thirds of the 435-member house to take effect. the matter may be taken up on the floor at any time, now that the committee report has been released
if the resolution passes, biaggi would be the second congressman expelled from the house since the civil war. rep. michael ``ozzie'' myers, d-pa., was ousted in 1980 after his conviction in the abscam bribery scheme
the committee report also includes a transcript of its closed dec. 17, 1987, meeting, at which biaggi pleaded for leniency and declared, ``i am incorruptible.''
biaggi argued that the vacation he took, at a florida health spa, was ``hospitality'' from esposito, a friend of 40 years, not a gratuity
placing the value of the vacation at about $3,000, biaggi asked rhetorically, ``mario biaggi is going to compromise himself for $3,000? i wouldn't compromise myself for $100,000.''
biaggi also said he did not know that esposito had business with coastal until a bugged telephone conversation on june 2, 1986, more than a year after the florida vacation
at full strength with the addition of justice anthony m. kennedy, the supreme court said monday it wants to hear a second round of arguments in two cases already under study
the unusual move _ having lawyers twice argue a case before the justices during one court term _ could mean that kennedy's tie-breaking vote is needed to resolve the two cases
at issue in one is whether defense contractors may be forced to pay damages for on-duty accidents involving members of the military
the court is deciding whether to reinstate a $725,000 award to the family of a marine helicopter co-pilot who died in a 1980 crash in the atlantic ocean near virginia beach, va
a jury awarded the damages to the family of david boyle, who drowned on april 27, 1983, in the crash of the ch-53 helicopter. but the 4th u.s. circuit court of appeals threw out the award against the helicopter manufacturer, sikorsky aircraft, and its parent company, united technologies corp
the appeals court said sikorsky, as a military contractor, was shielded from being sued because the navy approved of the helicopter's allegedly negligent design. the justices heard arguments in the case jan. 12
the second case, which the court first heard jan. 19 and will be reargued sometime in april, involves the convicted killer of an oklahoma policeman
prosecutors say bobby lynn ross shot elk city, okla., police sgt. steve mahan three times after the officer arrived at a motel being robbed by ross on jan. 5, 1983
at issue is whether ross' trial was tainted when the presiding judge refused to disqualify ``for cause'' a potential juror who said he would vote to impose the death penalty _ and would not even consider a life sentence _ if ross were convicted
the potential juror was excluded when ross' lawyer used one of nine ``peremptory challenges.'' ross contends his defense team should not have been forced to expend one such challenge for that juror
both cases are to be decided by july
the court monday refused to reconsider its 4-4 decision last december striking down an illinois law that could have made abortions more difficult to obtain for some teen-agers
the justices rejected a request by illinois attorney general neil f. hartigan that they restudy the law ``after the appointment of a ninth justice.''
kennedy joined the court last thursday, filling an eight-month vacancy, but he did not participate in monday's order denying reconsideration in the illinois case
he did join in the orders requiring reargument in the two other cases
in seeking reconsideration, hartigan emphasized the importance of ``a decision by a full court'' in the case
the illinois law required girls under 18 and still financially dependent on their parents notify both parents 24 hours before having an abortion
the law allowed a girl to avoid notifying her parents if she could prove to a state judge that she was mature enough and well-informed enough to make the decision on her own and that notifying her parents would not be in her best interest
doctors who failed to comply with the law's requirement faced criminal prosecution
a moderate earthquake jarred some central california residents awake, but law enforcement officers said monday no damage was reported
the quake at 11:43 p.m. sunday measured 3.9 on the richter scale of ground motion and was centered about 40 miles west-northwest of bakersfield, said robert finn, of the california institute of technology's seismology laboratory in pasadena
people felt it in the taft and bakersfield areas more than 100 miles north of los angeles and in san luis obispo county
we didn't get any reports of damage,'' san luis obispo sheriff's sgt. greg slane said. ``it was mostly just inquiries from people if there really was an earthquake
we assured them there was.''
a southern pacific freight train crew in santa margarita, 10 miles north of san luis obispo, reported heavy tools shook during the quake. trains were slowed while workers inspected the tracks for damage. none was found, officials in san francisco said
a soviet citizen was convicted of nazi war crimes monday and sentenced to 15 years in jail, the official news agency reported
tass said dmitri maslo was found guilty of high treason and other charges after a trial in the mining town of selidovo in the ukrainian republic
during world war ii, maslo joined the police force in the ukrainian city of krasnoarmeisk and ``voluntarily went over to the side of nazi invaders,'' tass said. it said he arrested and tortured ukrainians and jews and ``on many occasions he took part in the shooting of peaceful civilians.''
maslo, who went on trial feb. 9, also was accused of helping kill prisoners in the krasnoarmeisk jail in 1943 as soviet forces began liberating the area
he fled when the nazis withdrew and settled in khristinovka, near the ukrainian capital of kiev, tass said
five people were killed and five others were injured in a flurry of weekend gang-related shootings despite a police sweep aimed at curbing street violence
sixty officers swept through gang-infested south-central los angeles during a special 16-hour campaign against gang members and drug dealers saturday and sunday. they arrested more than 50 people for crimes ranging from narcotics sales to concealed weapons to grand theft auto, said lt. mark leap
despite the show of force, the violence was unrelenting
in one of the weekend killings, a man was shot by three teen-agers on bicycles, said sheriff's deputy gabriel ramirez
in one especially flagrant gang shooting, four men in a car shouted gang slogans and opened fire on about 50 people gathered in front of a taco bell restaurant sunday, police said. four teen-agers were wounded
the escalating street gang problem in los angeles became evident last month when it stretched out of crime-ridden south-central los angeles and reached into upscale westwood village, where a 27-year-old woman died when she got caught in gang crossfire
the strong police response to that shooting sparked an outcry in less-affluent communities such as the south-central area, where more than 100 people were killed in gang violence last year
mayor tom bradley last week signed an ordinance giving the city 150 more officers, many of which will be used to battle gangs. the city council also approved an anti-gang project that will result in up to 100 gang members in jail on drug charges each month, said deputy police chief glenn levant, 45, the department's newly-appointed ``gang czar.''
a teen-age boy whose father hired a hit man through soldier of fortune magazine to kill his mother fought back tears monday as he testified he feared a similar fate
gary wayne black, 18, took the stand in the second week of a federal court trial of a lawsuit filed by him and his maternal grandmother, marjorie einmann
they are seeking $22.5 million from the boulder, colo.-based magazine, accusing the self-proclaimed ``journal for professional adventurers'' of negligence for running an ad that led to the slaying of sandra black
the ad, placed by john wayne hearn, brought him into contact with robert black
black is on texas' death row for paying hearn $10,000 to carry out the killing of his wife. hearn is serving three life terms in florida for that and two other slayings
gary black, a high school senior who found his mother shot to death in their bryan home three years ago sunday, described her as understanding and kind
she just was the worst person i could lose,'' he said
mrs. einmann, who also testified monday as plaintiffs completed their case against the magazine, said her grandson was so devastated by the killing he not sleep alone or enter his house alone for a year and a half afterward
he constantly twitched, and suffered from severe headaches, she said
during treatment by state mental health counselors, the boy told how much he feared his father, she said
they said his mind was so damaged. ... he feared if someone could get into his own home to kill his own mother, someone could get into my house to kill him.''
if he could hire someone out of soldier of fortune magazine to kill my mother, he could hire someone out of soldier of fortune magazine to kill me, too,'' gary black said of his father
hearn's ad appeared in four issues of the magazine in late 1984, offering services of former marine and vietnam veterans and weapons specialists with jungle warfare expertise for ``high-risk assignments'' in the united states or overseas
a criminologist, park dietz, testified last week the reference to ``high-risk'' meant the person placing the ad was willing to commit a crime
attorneys for the magazine do not deny the ad brought hearn and black together, but insist publisher robert brown had no way of knowing the ad was for illegal activity
brown has testified he would have halted the classified ads for personal services if he had known they were linked to crimes
defense attorneys planned to call several witnesses to testify for the magazine's value as a defense journal
among them would be col. charles beckwith, who led the army's delta force in the unsuccessful attempt in 1980 to rescue the american hostages in iran. comment.</note>
navy secretary james h. webb resigned today, saying he is ``unable to support'' defense secretary frank carlucci's decision to abandon the goal of a 600-ship fleet and criticizing carlucci's leadership in the pentagon
this building needs to be led,'' webb told reporters. ``it needs leadership. it needs some vision. i'm saying that if i had a piece of advice to give to secretary carlucci, it would be to spend a lot more time with the top leaders in this building
he's been spending a lot of time with the state department and a lot of time on the hill. i think they (pentagon leaders) need to feel his vision and to understand what he believes in.''
webb, 42, has held the job less than a year. a highly-decorated marine veteran of vietnam combat, he was the author of ``fields of fire,'' a best-selling novel about the war in vietnam
in his letter of resignation to president reagan, webb said he decided to leave because he could not support the fiscal 1989 pentagon budget proposal crafted by carlucci
presidential spokesman marlin fitzwater said, ``secretary carlucci is having to make some very difficult adjustments in the pentagon to accommodate budgetary reductions. secretary webb indicates he is unable to operate under these constraints, but i know the president feels he has given very valuable service to the country, and will work with secretary carlucci to find a replacement as soon as possible.''
referring to the internal budget debate that led to last week's submission of the fiscal 1989 budget, webb wrote to reagan:
on three separate occasions, the uniformed and civilian leadership of the navy department provided the secretary of defense with proposed cuts totaling the amount required to meet the budget reduction, but which also would preserve the cherished goal of your administration to rebuild our navy to a minimum of 600 ships.''
because those recommendations ``were rejected by your secretary of defense, i am unable to support him personally or to defend this amended budget during budget deliberations (on capitol hill),'' webb concluded
consequently, i find it necessary to resign from my position as secretary of the navy.''
this (budget cutting) is not being done according to a strategy,'' webb told reporters in his pentagon office
webb, who assumed the post as the navy's top civilian leader just april 10, said his concerns focused on a decision by carlucci to propose the early retirement and mothballing of 16 navy frigates
the navy had to cut $12 billion from its original fiscal 1989 budget plan, but still could have kept those ships by assigning them to the naval reserve instead of consigning them to mothballs, webb continued
without those frigates, webb said there was no way the navy could build to 600 warships in fiscal 1989, as originally planned. indeed, despite the optimistic predictions of other pentagon officials, the decision means the navy will never reach the 600-ship mark, he added
and one of the sad things about this, this was one of the few goals of the reagan administration that was really obtainable, at pretty low cost,'' webb added
webb, one of the youngest men to ever become navy secretary, is a naval academy graduate
he came to the pentagon in 1984 when caspar w. weinberger was the defense secretary, assuming the post of assistant defense secretary for reserve affairs. webb had resigned that position and was preparing to leave government service in early 1987 when the president asked him to replace john f. lehman, the first navy secretary of the reagan administration
in his meeting with reporters, webb declined to speculate on why carlucci had insisted that ships be retired when that step _ in webb's view _ wasn't required
pentagon leaders should always be concerned about ``hollow forces'' that aren't properly manned, but the navy could have reached the 600-ship mark without giving up readiness, webb insisted
the navy secretary said he had wrestled with his concerns for some time but didn't make a final decision to resign until sunday
webb said he had not spoken to carlucci today, but had sent him a copy of his letter to reagan
carlucci, in a written personal statement, said today he had learned of webb's decision ``with regret.''
i wish him well in his future endeavors,'' carlucci said. ``he has earned our respect and gratitude for his service to our nation both in uniform and as a civilian leader within the defense department.''
the pentagon, in a companion statement, said the recent budget debate ``has been one of the most painful in history.''
the compromises have not been easy for anyone, and we regret the fact that the secretary of the navy appears to have found himself unable to defend the department's decisions. under the circumstances, he has done the honorable thing.''
the 70-year-old reputed underboss of the gambino crime family was sentenced monday to 15 years in prison and fined $820,000 for a racketeering conviction
joseph armone, of brooklyn, was convicted dec. 22 of racketeering conspiracy involving extortion, bribery and illegal interstate travel to commit bribery
u.s. district judge jack b. weinstein said he sentenced armone to prison despite his advanced age because he was convinced armone was a high-ranking member of the crime family
weinstein also cited armone's lengthy criminal record, which he said began when the defendant was 15 years old
armone had faced a maximum sentence of 20 years for the most serious charge, racketeering
according to the prosecution, armone was elevated from capo to underboss after he was indicted in 1986. it was also alleged that armone was observed meeting with reputed gambino boss john gotti during the trial
armone was jailed at the time of his conviction after he refused to renounce any organized crime ties as a condition for his release from detention. on monday, armone made a brief statement to weinstein in which he said he had not meant any disrespect to the court in refusing the offer but that he turned it down because he was worried about ``his rights''
prior to sentencing, defense attorney mark krasnow said armone had ``paid his dues to society'' for his previous convictions and charged that his client had been entrapped by the government
prosecutor douglas grover, a special attorney with the justice department's organized crime strike force, said armone had been convicted of ``serious and compelling'' crimes and of being a leader in the gambino family. his life,'' grover said
one of the bribery charges accused armone and one of his co-defendants, joseph n. gallo, of unsuccessfully plotting to give a $20,000 bribe so that gallo's son would be transferred from a state prison, where he was then being held, to a federal prison, where presumably he would receive better treatment
following is the text of an appeal made by kidnapped the u.s. marine officer, lt. col. william r. higgins, and released by his captors monday:
i, william higgins, in order to get me released, these demands have to be met:
one, the withdrawal of israeli forces from all occupied territories in lebanon
two, the release of all detained mujahedeen (holy warriors), lebanese and palestinians, from khiam prison and from all other prisons inside the zionist regime in occupied palestine
three, stopping u.s. intervention in lebanon and stop sending delegations to the middle east area, in order to surround the gains of the islamic revolution in occupied palestine
reagan has to take responsibility for the crimes he has committed against the oppressed people in the region
winds gusting up to 56 mph blasted gravel and other debris into the world's tallest building monday, and 90 of the sears tower's windows cracked or shattered, officials said
there were no reports of injuries from falling glass, said police and officials of sears, roebuck and co., which has its corporate headquarters in the building
police cordononed off the streets surrounding the 110-story building during the working rush hour, and planned to keep one closed as a precaution throughout the day
there are people in the process of boarding up windows and removing cracked windows,'' said gordon jones, a sears spokesman
the windows, 5 feet wide and 8 feet tall, began shattering and cracking at about 3:30 a.m. when gusts of up to 56 mph were recorded in the area, said ernest arms, another spokesman for sears
jones and arms said it appeared that one or more windows was broken by debris, perhaps pebbles from nearby roofs, and the others were broken as pieces came down
however, jones said, ``we don't really know _ it happened in the dark.''
jones said company officials did not have a damage estimate. all the cracked or broken windows were located between the 50th and 88th floors of the 1,454-foot building, said arms
five windows were broken during high winds in april 1984, he said
the former parish priest of an irish nationalist who was shot dead from a british army observation tower said monday the victim was harassed by police and soldiers for at least five years
the rev. brendan mchugh said aidan mcanespie, 23, had to cross into the irish republic every day to his job and was harassed constantly at the army checkpoint
we complained time out of number to the police and military, but no action was ever taken. life for the poor man had just become unbearable,'' mchugh told reporters
the army said it ``deeply regrets'' the shooting sunday. a spokesman said mcanespie was hit by a bullet fired from an observation post about half a mile from the frontier in county tyrone
police said the soldier involved was in military custody and an investigation was being conducted. the soldier was not identified and police would not comment on the priest's allegations
relatives said mcanespie was walking to a regular weekly gaelic football game in aughnacloy, the county tyrone village where he lives
francis molloy, a local councilman, said mcanespie was an election worker for sinn fein, legal political arm of the outlawed irish republican army. the ira denied he was among its members and mchugh, the priest, said he was not involved in paramilitary activity
he was never abused physically, just verbally, and his car was often taken apart,'' he said. ``i don't know why he was singled out for such treatment
the campaign against him must have been going on for at least five years. other young lads were also stopped, but aidan appeared to be getting special treatment.''
shootings of civilians by security forces have become rare compared with the early 1970s, when protestant-catholic strife in the british province was at its height
mcanespie's death came at a time of severe strain in anglo-irish relations over other incidents involving police and the province's roman catholic minority. the government in dublin demanded a speedy report
britain provoked irish outrage last month by saying it would not prosecute policemen accused of perverting justice in the aftermath of the killings of six unarmed catholics in three incidents in late 1982
the strain was compounded by a british appeals court's refusal to overturn the conviction of six irishmen for two bombings that killed 21 people in 1974. irish officials believe the six are victims of a miscarriage of justice
a federal judge monday dismissed drug-related charges against a woman whose boyfriend fell to his death from a plane in 1985 with 77 pounds of cocaine and a defective parachute strapped to his body
u.s. district judge james h. jarvis dropped the counts at the request of assistant u.s. attorney james r. dedrick, who last week lost a bid to use statements mad by rebecca sharp to undercover agents as evidence against her
ms. sharp, 32, a paralegal in lexington, ky., had been set to go on trial march 1 on charges of conspiring with her boyfriend, former lexington narcotics officer andrew thornton ii, to import cocaine and of distributing the drug
under the terms of the dismissal, dedrick can seek another indictment against ms. sharp. meanwhile, her attorney said ms. sharp was pleased at the movie and hopeful the case was over
thornton's body was found on a knoxville driveway sept. 11, 1985. bags of cocaine were tied to his waist, and federal authorities have linked him to about 200 pounds of the drug found in duffel bags scattered across northern georgia for apparent later retrieval. the empty plane was found crashed
a few days later, drug enforcement agency special agent kieran kobell, posing as an associate or representative of ``the colombians'' who supposedly provided thornton the cocaine, went to lexington with a government informant, bertram gordon
kobel said the two met with ms. sharp and she revealed an intimate knowledge of the cocaine smuggling operation
dedrick's motion did not specify why he wanted the charges dismissed, but it seems likely the suppression of ms. sharp's statements was a direct cause
u.s. magistrate robert p. murrian ruled feb. 12 that those statements were made in fear
kobell ``was playing the part of a colombian or representative of a colombian or colombians who had lost $12,000,000 worth of cocaine,'' he wrote in upholding the motion to keep ms. sharp's statements out of evidence
i believe that under the circumstances of this case, the defendant (ms. sharp) had to have been in great personal fear for her safety when she made the statements. ...,'' murrian wrote. ``it would have been smart from her point of view to promise that the deal would go through, that the colombians would not be `ripped off' and that she would kill if necessary to see that happen.''
murrian also said kobell threatened both ms. sharp and fred partin, her attorney in kentucky, according to partin's testimony at the suppression hearing. partin is a former assistant u.s. attorney
kobell has denied threatening ms. sharp
nine organizations, including the american academy of pediatrics and the national education association, announced formation monday of a coalition to lobby on behalf of children with aids
we need money from both government and private sources,'' said edward connor, a member of the academy of pediatrics
conner noted that about 80 percent of the known 839 cases of children with aids in the united states were born to mothers who are drug abusers themselves or sexual partners of drug abusers
if we could reach these prospective parents today, we could stop this expanding problem in nine months,'' he said at a press conference
but he acknowledged that drug abusers are the hardest group to educate about the threat of aids and said more money will be needed to pay for the kind of face-to-face contact that is required to reach them
rather than focus on a particular goal, representatives of the nine organizations said they would engage in a ``generic'' effort to make sure children are not forgotten as programs to combat aids are formulated and implemented
other members of the coalition: children's defense fund, american psychological association, national association of community health centers, child welfare league of america, american nurses association, national association of children's hospitals and related institutions and the western association of children's hospitals
sen. paul simon, who once said he'd drop out of the race for the democratic presidential nomination if he didn't come out of minnesota or south dakota with a victory, said monday he doesn't expect to carry either state but plans to fight on anyway
i'm continuing to campaign all the way to atlanta, period,'' the illinois senator told reporters during an appearance at the university of minnesota
simon also predicted that when the democratic national convention convenes in atlanta in july it would be ``not likely we will have any one person with a majority.''
on the eve of the minnesota precinct caucuses and the south dakota primary, simon was offering a new scenario for survival of his financially troubled campaign
i have to say candidly it is unlikely i am going to win in minnesota or south dakota,'' he said. ``i think we're going to do respectably. i think we're going to do respectably on super tuesday and then the whole thing, in a sense, starts over because i think we're going to have a very scattered result after that.''
he noted that the next big event after march 8, the day dubbed super tuesday because 20 states will hold primaries or caucuses, will be the primary in illinois, his home state
i think we're going to have a new ballgame,'' he said
after his third-place finish in the new hampshire primary last week, simon said he would drop out of the race if he didn't come up with a victory in minnesota or south dakota
what changed my mind,'' he said, ``was an avalanche of support from around the nation which said we want to have someone who represents the party's progressive wing.''
asked on what he based his contention that he would do ``respectably'' in the south on super tuesday, simon cited polls he said showed him ``doing pretty well'' on a state-by-state basis
i haven't led in any of them, but i've been doing pretty well so far,'' he said
during an earlier appearance at gustavus adolphus college in st. peter, simon proposed that anyone signing up for welfare be required to take a literacy test. if they can't read or write, they would be required to take an adult literacy program, he said
we need to move massively on this,'' he said
democrat albert gore jr. won the support monday of sen. howell heflin, a southern conservative who said he wanted to ``educate'' the presidential candidate to more conservative or moderate views
he's not too far to the left, but i've got to try to bring him to the middle a little bit,'' said heflin, of alabama. ``i'm going to work on him.''
heflin appeared with his senate colleague from neighboring tennessee at a news conference scheduled by the gore campaign to trumpet what they regarded as an endorsement by an influential and respected southern conservative lawmaker
gore also used the news conference to renew attacks on democratic rivals richard gephardt, a missouri congressman, for inconsistency and massachusetts gov. michael dukakis for foreign policy inexperience
heflin's remarks, however, highlighted the difference between the alabama senator's conservative voting record in congress and that of gore. gore has positioned himself to the right of his rivals on defense and foreign policy issues, but has a voting record that critics say is more liberal than his rhetoric suggests
heflin said gore has common sense and a ``down-home centralist philosophy.''
but he acknowledged gore was to the left of himself when he was asked about how they have differed on such issues as military aid to the nicaraguan contras and money for president reagan's nuclear defense shield program
i have a hope that i can educate him a little bit, and bring him over a little bit more,'' heflin said
gore opposes military aid to the contras, while saying he would support some humanitarian aid, and has opposed money for star wars, although he has said he would support some research consistent with existing treaties
gore had a rating of 70 in 1986 from the liberal americans for democratic action, meaning his votes on selected issues agreed with that group's position 70 percent of the time. he had a rating of 9 from the conservative american conservative union. heflin, by contrast, had ratings of 25 from the ada and 65 from the acu
heflin said he regarded gore as the most electable of the democratic candidates and ``strong on national defense.''
al gore is the only democratic candidate in this race who can carry the south in november,'' he said
his roots run deep in southern soil, and he has never forgotten rural america from whence he came,'' heflin said
gore renewed the criticism of his rivals, accusing dukakis of suggesting it was ``fine with him if the soviet union established a client state in central america, so long as they did not put soviet offensive weapons in that client state.'' dukakis has sharply denied making such a statement
it is another example of his total lack of experience in foreign policy,'' gore said
gore repeated criticism of gephardt for changing positions on issues such as abortion, the minimum wage and taxes. but gore acknowledged he had voted in 1984 for legislation that had mandatory production control provisions similar to the farm proposals gephardt now backs and gore denounces as disastrous for the economy
there is a difference between changing your mind on one or two issues over a 12-year period, and having a wholesale change in dozens and dozens of key positions,'' he said, referring to gephardt
he also said gephardt's ``whole approach to the electorate is in contrast to the approach during his career in the congress.''
gore also campaigned in maryland, one of the 20 states holding democratic primaries or caucuses march 8, where he said stopping the flow of illegal drugs into the country would be a top priority for his administration. he stopped at the coast guard's curtis bay shipyard, which the reagan administration has scheduled to close and which he pledged to keep open
president reagan asked the senate on monday to ratify a treaty with canada that he said should help the two countries prosecute terrorists, drug traffickers and other criminals
the treaty on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters was signed by reagan and canadian prime minister brian mulroney at their meeting in quebec city, canada, on march 18, 1985. the white house said submission was delayed while annexes to the pact were worked out by the two nations
it is one of a series of such legal assistance treaties being negotiated by the united states
similar pacts have gone into force with italy, the netherlands, switzerland and turkey
others have been signed but not yet gone into force with colombia, morocco, mexico, thailand, belgium, the bahamas and the united kingdom on behalf of the cayman islands
reagan sent the treaty with mexico to the senate for consideration just before his meeting with mexican president miguel de la madrid in mazatlan, mexico, on feb. 13
in his message to the senate, he said the treaty with canada ``should be an effective tool to prosecute a wide variety of modern criminals including members of drug cartels, `white-collar criminals' and terrorists.''
the treaty provides for the two countries to assist each other in taking testimony or statements of witnesses; providing documents, records and evidence; executing requests for searches and seizures and serving documents
it also provides for assistance in proceedings relating to forfeiture of the proceeds of crime, restitution for victims and collection of fines. capital</head>
this seaside town is girding for another successful spring break, while former mecca fort lauderdale faces defections to exotic resorts and uncertainty at home over whether it should keep encouraging college students
the 1960 film ``where the boys are'' established fort lauderdale as the nation's spring break center, but daytona beach has taken the lead in florida recently
daytona beach will play host this year to about 500,000 young vacationers between feb. 28 and april 1, while fort lauderdale may be lucky to attract the 200,000 that came last year, officials say
not all of the defectors are going to daytona beach
in recent years, the bahamas, florida's panhandle, texas' south padre island and the mexican resorts in cancun and acapulco have cultivated the free-spending students
i doubt if i have 100 reservations to fort lauderdale, but probably 8,000 for cancun,'' rob brown, president of travel turf tours in bethlehem, pa. told the wall street journal last week
there's some talk about how mexico's coming into prominence,'' florida tourism division spokesman raul marcucci said monday. ``it started happening last year.''
but with 16,000 hotel rooms along 23 miles of beach, daytona beach is expecting a strong turnout
we know that, on an average, each student visiting daytona beach spends between $325 and $400 here,'' said evelyn fine, executive director of the mid-florida research and business center of daytona beach community college. ``assuming each dollar is spent seven times in the local economy, my guess is we're looking at about $130 million this year.''
mtv and national college television networks will broadcast live from daytona beach over the peak march 20 weekend
two breweries are sponsoring free concerts, a soft drink maker is sending a portable dance club to motel parking lots, and countless other national distributors will promote everything from suntan lotion to peppermint schnapps, including tennis shoes and do-it-yourself pregnancy tests
tour promoters say daytona beach has become the spring break mecca partly because fort lauderdale officials, weary of the trouble that came with the collegians, have been cracking down
in the past five years, i've seen a gradual increase to daytona, just because of the strictness of the enforcement in lauderdale,'' said ron good, president of campus marketing inc. in glen ellyn, ill. ``you can really kind of let loose in daytona; it's a little bit wilder.''
daytona beach police jailed 270 people when an all-night, rock-throwing melee broke out on the strip in 1975. but fort lauderdale ran into even more trouble. a crackdown two years ago resulted in 2,500 arrests
across florida, state officials this year are urging bar owners to obey the law on the drinking age of 21
the division of alcoholic beverages and tobacco is presenting workshops in traditional spring break cities to educate bar owners and employees about florida's drinking laws
meanwhile, ``for sale'' signs have been sprouting in fort lauderdale
last year was a devastating year for a lot of the small hotels, and some of these mom-and-pop hotels already are being listed for sale,'' said real estate broker max sebastiani
while city officials emphasize family vacations, some merchants are still rooting for the college students
there's only a small group that doesn't want the college students,'' said ``crazy gregg'' newell, former bar owner and director of the fort lauderdale '88 committee promoting spring break. ``and they don't seem to be directly involved with beach business.''
bob dole's presidential campaign manager said monday the kansas senator intends to take the offensive on the issue of taxes and may ``start pointing out how many times george bush has changed his position'' on the subject
former sen. bill brock also accused the vice president's campaign of deliberate distortions of dole's position that were ``demeaning to the political process.''
brock made his comments as aides said the campaign had hired new producers for its television advertisements in the wake of dole's defeat by bush in last week's new hampshire primary
officials said michael murphy and alex castellanos, who produced a biographical videotape used late last year to introduce dole to the voters, would be joining the campaign. they will replace don ringe
dole was seen as damaged in new hampshire by bush's charge that he couldn't be relied on to block tax increases, but brock said the vice president really distorted the record. he said dole has said he would veto any attempt to increase income tax rates, but was not averse to closing certain loopholes that allow corporations to reduce their tax bills
he said it was time to ``start pointing out how many times george bush has changed his position on taxes. back in october he said he was against any tax increase, a few days later he came out and said well maybe. in november again he said, well i really don't want to and then four days after that he said maybe we'll have to.''
i don't think we're going to be on the defensive on this one. i think we're going to be on the offensive,'' he said
brock did not elaborate on the comments he said bush had made
scandals surrounding two of the most prominent ministers of the assemblies of god may have created a false impression that the church is riddled with discipline problems, an official said monday
the evangelical church, which counts more than 16 million adherents worldwide and operates four colleges in springfield, is investigating the misconduct of louisiana evangelist jimmy swaggart. officials say swaggart has revealed an undisclosed transgression. on sunday, he tearfully stepped down from his television pulpit
another prominent television evangelist, the ptl's jimmy bakker, lost his assemblies of god credentials last year amid charges of sexual misconduct. swaggart was said to have been active in uncovering that scandal and bakker accused him of plotting to take over ptl
`those are the only two in our whole denomination that have that kind of recognition,'' said church spokeswoman juleen turnage. ``so people may feel that this is indicative of the assemblies of god denomination, and that is not true
we have over 30,000 credentialed ministers in the assemblies of god in the united states. at any given time, any given year, fewer than one-half of 1 percent are ever called into discipline... .''
mrs. turnage said 12 areas of misconduct, ranging from doctrinal aberrations to moral failure, call for disciplinary action
mrs. turnage said that, according to by-laws, the church's louisiana district has six months to complete its investigation of swaggart, though it is not expected to take that long
now that he has confessed to the sin, it will be a matter of the district meeting and forwarding a report and its reccommendation to the executive presbytery here in springfield,'' mrs. turnage said
swaggart could be suspended or dismissed as an assemblies minister. in either case, he would have the option of entering a rehabilitation program that would take at least two years, turnage said
swaggart appeared before his congregation in baton rouge, la., sunday to ask forgiveness from his family and church for an act he did not describe publicly. he said he would not return to his pulpit until the church investigation was completed. measures</head>
soldiers, guerrillas and a communist leader were killed monday despite emergency measures to curb one of the bloodiest spates of violence the country has seen in three decades
ten peasants were singled out at a cockfight sunday and shot by men wearing black hoods, official reports said. in all, 27 people have been killed in ambushes and assassinations over two days
president virgilio barco last month ordered a state of emergency in an attempt to halt a wave of violence that has taken the lives of more than 1,700 people in the last year. more than 120 people have been killed this year
most of those deaths came after barco ordered army troops to reinforce the police and increased jail terms for many violent crimes, especially those committed by drug traffickers, leftist guerrillas and paid assassins
leftist guerrillas on monday released seven mayors and two reporters kidnapped earlier this month, the radio stations rcn and caracol said
last week the rebels freed four mayors and a reporter they had abducted. the guerrillas warned the mayors to budget more money to help the poor and said they planned to blow up the country's main oil pipeline again to keep oil from being exported
all 11 mayors and three reporters kidnapped were from towns in northeast colombia and all had been held for about a week
the kidnappings were by the national liberation army, known as the eln, which follows the political ideology of cuba's fidel castro. the rebel group has blown up the country's main oil pipeline 13 times since jan. 12
the latest victim of an apparent right wing death squad was carlos gonima, a communist leader and assistant city attorney in the northwest city of medellin
a man riding on a motorcycle monday shot and killed gonima and wounded his driver as gonima headed for work at city hall, the national police said in a news release
gonima was a member of the leftist patriotic union party, which has seen more than 500 of its members killed since it was organized by former guerrillas in 1985
leftist guerrillas ambushed an army patrol monday, killing four soldiers, the press office for the government of the state of antioquia said in a news release
in southwest colombia guerrillas attacked the towns of trujillo and caloto on sunday and killed seven policemen, the army's 8th brigade said in a communique
near vistahermosa, in a jungled area in the southeast state of meta, 20 men wearing black hoods and carrying submachine guns surrounded dozens of men attending a cockfight on sunday, the police said
ten peasants were separated from the group and and shot as they pleaded for their lives, the policer said. the police report did not say who was suspected in the massacre. drug traffickers have long dominated large areas of the vast jungles in eastern colombia
the traffickers kill people they suspect of being informers or for refusing to let traffickers use their land for growing coca trees, the source for cocaine
a broadcast reporter and a mother and her 15-month-old girl were killed sunday when gunmen opened fire on the reporter's car as the three traveled along a highway near the western city of cali, the national police there said in a news release
the reporter, belisario zambrano, of the cali station rcn, was the 30th reporter to be slain in colombia in 11 years. zambrano reported frequently on the government's efforts against narcotics
an indian running for mayor in a small town in northwest colombia was assassinated sunday
the victim, jose gilberto motato, was the leading candidate for mayor in the town of riosucio, the mayor there, alberto diaz, said in a broadcast report over the radio chain caracol
motato was the leader of an indian movement for land reform and other programs to help poor people in the area in the state of caldas
a city councilman, rafael ballesteros, was also killed sunday in chicogorodo in the northwest state of antioquia, the bogota daily el tiempo quoted national police there as saying
the councilman was a member of the ruling liberal party. about 100 members of colombia's two dominate parties, the liberal and the conservative, have been killed in the last year, with the army and police blaming guerrillas for most of the killings
exporters have sold china an additional 405,000 metric tons of u.s. wheat at subsidized prices for delivery in the 1987-88 marketing year, the agriculture department said monday
the sales, equal to almost 14.9 million bushels, were handled by five companies: cargill inc., 135,000 tons; nichimen america inc., 35,000; bunge corp., 35,000; continental grain co., 100,000; and artfer inc., 100,000
william l. davis, acting general sales manager for the department's foreign agricultural service, said the sales were part of an authorized 1.2 million tons of wheat announced feb. 5 under the export enhancement program, or eep
although no selling prices or other details were announced, recent prices of wheat at farm points have averaged around $2.76 per bushel, indicating a u.s. farm value of about $41 million
a metric ton is about 2,205 pounds and is equal to 36.7 bushels of wheat
china bought more than 4 million tons of wheat under previous eep arrangements, which allow exporters to sell commodities at reduced prices in order to meet foreign competition and then collect free government surpluses of grain or other commodities as bonuses, or subsidies
davis said the bonuses due the five companies averaged $40.38 per ton, or about $1.10 per bushel of wheat. the bonuses will be paid in the form of surplus commodities owned by the department's commodity credit corp
china has 495,000 tons remaining for use under the eep initiative announced on feb. 5, he said
four small bombs exploded in the parking lot of a u.s. military compound early monday, damaging several cars but causing no injuries, police reported
they said at least one person climbed the fence around the cook barracks before dawn and set six homemade devices on the ground beside parked cars, but only four of the bombs went off
police estimated the damage at $2,900. they said no individual or group claimed responsibility for the attack. u.s. officials did not comment on the incident
cook barracks is located on the outskirts of goeppingen in the southern state of baden-wuerttemberg
a 24-year-old mental patient who was not considered dangerous walked away from a psychiatric center and assaulted two relatives with a hatchet monday, critically injuring one of them, police said
the patient, donald rattray, was arrested at his home in the city's bronx section after he allegedly assaulted his brother-in-law and an uncle at 5 a.m., said sgt. maurice howard, a police spokesman
rattray was not considered dangerous by officials at bronx psychiatric center, to which he had been voluntarily admitted, said steven osborne, a spokesman for the state office of mental health
the brother-in-law, james selvin, 30, was struck twice in the head by the hatchet. he underwent surgery for his wounds and was listed in critical condition at jacobi hospital, spokesman susan mueller said
the uncle, onis rattray, 46, was in stable condition at the hospital with cuts to the left hand. both men lived with rattray
rattray was being held on charges of first-degree assault and criminal possession of a deadly instrument, the hatchet
rattray escaped from the psychiatric center saturday evening, osborne said
he got into an unlocked janitor's closet on the second floor, broke the window and escaped by tying a bunch of sheets together and climbing from the second floor window,'' osborne said
rattray was voluntarily admitted to the hospital feb. 16., osborne said
rattray had left the center without consent feb. 8, the spokesman said. police were called to the family home feb. 13 because rattray was behaving irrationally, howard said. he then voluntarily readmitted himself
patients who are voluntarily admitted to the hospital may petition to leave at any time, but the approval process takes up to three days, osborne said
a contingency plan to help prevent an uncontrolled meltdown of the financial markets won the endorsement monday of the chairman of the house energy and commerce committee and three other representatives
our markets remain vibrant, but they are at the same time delicate,'' rep. john dingell, d-mich., wrote in a letter to the heads of three regulatory agencies. ``to permit them to function without such a contingency plan courts unnecessary risk.''
the letter was also signed by reps. edward markey, d-mass., chairman of the house telecommunications and finance subcommittee; norman lent, r-n.y., ranking minority member on the energy and commerce committee, and matthew rinaldo, r-n.j., ranking minority member of the finance subcommittee
the letter to the securities and exchange commission, commodity futures trading commission and federal reserve board was prompted by the oct. 19 stock crash
the market decline ... was a wrenching and sobering experience for the marketplace, market participants, regulators and those of us in congress with oversight responsibilities for our securities markets,'' the letter said
it noted a recommendation by the general accounting office, congress' research arm, that regulators prepare a plan for dealing with any similar emergency in the future
we believe that his recommendation ... should be implemented as a concrete first step toward increased coordination among the markets and restoration of investor confidence,'' the letter said
the congressmen asked the regulators to report to congress by march 25 on their efforts to craft a plan for coordinating decisions by regulators and communicating them to the markets
they also asked the agencies to determine ``how much authority the marketplaces should have to act independently of the regulators in crisis circumstances.''
the letter urged the agencies to agree on circumstances that would allow relaxed interpretation of rules ``to facilitate market liquidity, such as the interpretation of rules associated with corporate stock repurchase plans,'' and on the provision of funds to the economy by the federal reserve during times of market turmoil
congress, meanwhile, has been considering long-term measures to ensure greater market coordination, ranging from a partial merger of the sec and cftc to the creation of a new oversight body. bgng: ``blandon, a ...'' to update with meeting lasting 2{ hours.</note>
a former top aide to panamana's strongman gen. manuel antonio noriega met under heavy guard monday at the u.s. courthouse with prosecutors investigating the iran-contra affair
jose i. blandon presumably was questioned by the staff of independent counsel lawrence e. walsh about noriega's agreement to train nicaraguan rebels at the request of lt. col. oliver north, a former national security council official who is a target of walsh's investigation
blandon, a former panamanian intelligence official, was escorted by heavily armed u.s. marshals as he arrived at the courthouse for his 2{-hour meeting with members of walsh's staff
a former top intelligence official in the panamanian government, blandon was a key informant for federal prosecutors in florida who earlier this month obtained indictments charging noriega with taking at least $4.6 million in bribes to protect a major colombian drug ring
he is now in the protective custody of u.s. marshals
blandon recently told the senate foreign relations committee that noriega agreed to provide training for nicaraguan anti-sandinista rebels after recieving a request from north in 1985
north sought the training on panamanian soil because congress had banned direct u.s. military aide to the rebels, blandon said
blandon, who was fired last month as panama's consul general in new york, told congressional hearings earlier this month that north met with noriega on a yacht in june 1985 near the panamanian city of balboa. the two met again four months later in noriega's office, blandon said
during one of the meetings, noriega offered to send panamanian soldiers to nicaragua on ``terrorist sabotage'' missions but north said he had no authority to accept such an offer, blandon said. north said, however, he would relay noriega's offer to his superiors at the national security council, blandon testified
blandon said noriega also met in december 1985 with rear adm. john m. poindexter, who had just been appointed national security adviser
poindexter, who is also a target of walsh's investigation, resigned nov. 24, 1986 following revelations that proceeds of u.s. arms sales to iran had been diverted to help buy arms for the contras
north was fired the same day that poindexter submitted his resignation to president reagan
in his testimony to the senate foreign relations committee, blandon said noriega headed a ``criminal empire'' that sold drugs with the knowledge of u.s. officials
blandon also said one of noriega's pilots flew a cargo of cocaine to a ranch in costa rica owned by an american supporter of the contras
noriega was indicted by federal grand juries in miami and tampa earlier this month on charges that he accepted at least $4.6 million in payoffs from colombia's medellin drug cartel, said to supply 80 percent of the cocaine shipped to this country
the indictments charge that noriega accepted the payoffs in return for laundering drug money, providing protection for cocaine shipments and a haven for drug dealers. noriega has strongly denied any wrongdoing
state and local government workers received annual pay raises last year averaging 4.9 percent under collective bargaining contracts with public employee unions, the labor department said monday
the pay increases were below the average 5.7 percent raises received by state and local government employees in 1986. but the workers still fared better last year than federal employees who got a 3 percent pay increase and private sector workers whose wages rose an average 3.3 percent
however, the bureau of labor statistics noted that union contracts in the public and private sectors differ significantly
state and local governments, for example, tend to have a higher proportion of professional and white-collar workers. union contracts in the private sector, on the other hand, often include lump-sum bonuses and cost-of-living adjustments excluded from the wage calculations and usually absent in the public sector
the figures showed that local government workers with wage increases averaging 5.3 percent outpaced state employees workers with an average 4.3 percent raise
among occupation groups, primary and secondary school teachers got the biggest raises at 6.3 percent, followed by transit and other transportation workers at 4.8 percent. reaction; picks up old graf 17, ``illinois gov. ...''; adds one graf with captain kangaroo.</note>
president reagan cautioned the nation's governors monday against pressing for costly federal solutions to the problems of welfare and child care
his remarks to the national governors' association were labeled a disappointment by massachusetts gov. michael dukakis, a democratic presidential hopeful, who said reagan should be backing the governors' bipartisan welfare reform bill in the senate
reagan instead said he still strongly supports a less costly republican alternative that the house rejected two months ago
he also cautioned the governors to go slow on the issue of child care, where both democrats and republicans in congress are proposing to expand federal support and subsidies for working parents
maybe it's my conservative bent, but i can't help but feel uneasy sometimes,'' he told the governors gathered in the east room of the white house
welfare programs have become ``a crippling poverty trap . ... they keep the poor poor,'' reagan said. ``now, much of the push for child care is designed to rectify the ills of earlier programs, and many of these efforts are timely and good. but in this area, more than any other, government should tread carefully.''
reagan said the alternative bill sponsored by house minority leader robert michel, r-ill., would also give states freedom to ``develop your own ideas on child care.''
afterwards, dukakis told reporters that he was very disappointed
just one word from the president, i think, would get this bill passed and done before the election, and get it off the table as a partisan issue and get going,'' said dukakis
he keeps telling us stories about california, and we're trying to explain to him that the vast majority of people on welfare these days are single mothers with young children, and it's a combination of real training for real jobs, combined with day care, that makes a difference,'' said dukakis
howard baker, reagan's chief of staff, said reagan would veto the house-passed welfare reform bill, but might approve a less expensive measure still being shaped by the senate finance committee
the governors are pushing sen. daniel patrick moynihan's bill, which would toughen enforcement of child support, help states pay for job training and make participation mandatory for most unemployed adults. it would also provide some transitional medicaid and welfare benefits for families exiting the relief rolls for work
moynihan, a new york democrat, has 56 co-sponsors for his bill, which would cost $2.3 billion over five years, compared to the $4.3 billion house bill, which would raise benefits and prohibit states from denying welfare to families with both parents in the home
baker said the moynihan bill is not yet satisfactory, but he held out the hope that moynihan and sen. john heinz, r-pa., might be able to fashion a compromise satisfactory to reagan
heinz, like moynihan a member of the senate finance committee, has not introduced an alternative bill
moynihan said in a telephone interview he heard two messages from reagan: ``one says that we're going to veto the house bill. the other says we can try to work something out. i choose to respond to the second message. there's too much at stake here. if the president is interested in the subject, i'll be happy to work with sen. heinz on anything.''
rep. tom downey, d-n.y., who spearheaded passage of the house bill, said in an interview, ``the time to do something about welfare is now and the only person who seems opposed to it or looking at the past is the president. we're not going to end child poverty by leaving it to the states to do it. they don't have the money.''
illinois gov. james thompson, a republican, told reporters, ``i think there's just a fundamental disagreement about how far to go on welfare reform, especially with regard to cost. the governors changed their mind, not the president.'' but despite that sticking point, thompson said, ``i still hold out hope that between the administration and the senate we'll get a bill.''
arkansas gov. bill clinton, a democrat who is leading the governors' push for welfare reform, emerged from the meeting and said he felt reagan was open to compromise
i am encouraged because basically their negotiating strategy with everybody always is to take the hardest possible line and then come off of it at the end,'' clinton said
in the private meeting that followed reagan's speech, clinton said, ``i told him we thought his bill was not a good bill and that we were willing to make some changes in what came out of the house, but we weren't going to get anywhere if his emissary kept saying, `well, we're going to veto whatever passes that we don't like.''
clinton said reagan replied that ``he heard us ... and was willing to work with us, so i think that's good.''
alabama gov. guy hunt, a republican, said he shared reagan's misgivings about the house-passed welfare bill. he said it ``might really compound the problem'' by increasing federal funding without giving states more control over welfare rules
what the states need is flexibility to allow them to ``gradually remove (people) from welfare'' instead of terminating their benefits as soon as they get a job, hunt said
later, the governors' committee on human resources heard television's captain kangaroo, bob keeshan, plead for corporations to start providing quality day care. ``i'm almost ashamed at times to be an american,'' the children's performer and advocate said. ``we are half a century behind in addressing day care. we are going to pay an enormous price a quarter-century down the line.''
president reagan on monday designated edward j. philbin, a former san diego lawyer and law professor, as acting chairman of the federal maritime commission
edward v. hickey jr., chairman of the commission, died in january
philbin, 55, has been a member of the commission since 1984. before that, he served three years as deputy assistant secretary of defense for reserve affairs
philbin joined the university of san diego law faculty in 1970 and became assistant dean in 1973. he was also a partner in a san diego law firm specializing in civil litigation
he is a member of the naval air reserve and served several tours of active duty. vote</head>
sen. sam nunn said monday the new u.s.-soviet nuclear arms control treaty won't be ratified until after his armed services committee the panel finishes its line-by-line examination of the pact
that laborious process began monday after the state department sent the senate 31 volumes of documents involved in the long negotiations which led to the intermediate-range nuclear forces (inf) pact
it is very regrettable that we have to go through this,'' said the georgia democrat, who emerged victorious in a fight with the reagan administration over the legal meaning of treaties
nunn, chairman of the armed services panel, said he didn't know how long it would take the committee to finish its work
the panel is one of three senate committees considering the treaty, which was signed in december by president reagan and soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev. ratification by the full senate, which requires a two-thirds vote, is expected later
the inf fight was based on a previous dispute between the democratic-controlled congress and the reagan administration over the 1972 anti-ballistic missile treaty and reagan's star wars anti-missile program
a number of star wars tests would be banned unless the united states moved from the current ``narrow'' interpretation of the abm treaty to a ``broad'' view
the reagan administration had asserted it wasn't bound by what previous administrations told congress about the meaning of the abm pact, a view the white house at one point tried to push in the senate debate over the inf treaty
nunn threatened to block the treaty until secretary of state george p. shultz promised last month that administration comments on the treaty were ``authoritative,'' meaning that future administrations couldn't try to change how the treaty is viewed
since shultz's promise was delivered, ``we can now proceed, confident that the treaty the committee is being asked to approve is the same treaty'' the administration believes it negotiated, nunn told maynard glitman, one of the chief negotiators for the u.s. team which worked out the treaty, during a committee meeting monday
the committee has sent the state department a list of 135 questions about possible ambiguities in the treaty, nunn said. most are technical questions but some involve queries about possible interpretation of the pact, which bans missiles with ranges from 300 miles to 3,400 miles
sen. john glenn, d-ohio, told glitman, ``i'm sorry there was a reinterpretation of the abm treaty that made this necessary.''
it's sad we have to go through the exercise we're going through here,'' said sen. james exon, d-neb
while the armed services panel was going through a detailed scrutiny of the pact, the senate foreign relations committee continued taking testimony from public witnesses
dr. edward teller, the physicist who is considered the father of both the hydrogen bomb and reagan's star wars program, told the foreign relations panel he thought the fights over the meanings of treaties were ``senseless debates.''
teller said he supports the treaty, although he is deeply distrustful of the soviet union
speaking of the treaty, he said, ``my personal approach is careful, doubtful, yet positive,'' he said
six european relief workers abducted by rebels in ethiopia's northern tigre province were released monday and are in good condition, spokesmen for a belgian medical organization reported
they said the doctors and nurses were seized thursday in tigre where separatists have been fighting the marxist government for years
reginald moreels, president of the belgian branch of medecins sans frontieres (doctors without borders), told a news conference the victims were belgian doctors germaine hanquet and michel moreau, dutch nurse roland raaijmaekers an irish doctor and two irish nurses
moreels said they were released in adigrat, 12 miles north of idaga hamous where the aid organization has been operating a hospital for three years
news of their release was reported to brussels by dr. pierre harze, who had been sent to ethiopia to try to gain their freedom
morrels said harze had not yet met with the six
jean-pierre luxen, director of the belgian organization, said the two belgian doctors would go to northern city of asmara and return to belgium later this week. he said other doctors would replace them at the hospital in idaga hamous, 340 miles north of the capital of addis ababa
luxen said the medical team was abducted without violence by members of the popular front for the liberation of the tigre who also seized the group's vehicle and medical supplies
seyoum musse, an official with the popular front's office in london, had announced earlier monday that the six had been released
in a telephone interview in london, he said: ``the whole aim of taking them with us was to show there are millions of people who are beyond the reach of ... isolated symbolic (government) food distribution centers like the one they were stationed at
the aim is to dispel the government's misinformation that millions are being reached with aid,'' he added
he said the government will not allow foreign relief volunteers ``to go outside the place they work. for this reason we have taken them a few hours away. they are the guests of millions of starved people.''
medicins san frontieres is an international non-governmental organization that has medical aid projects in 15 countries in central america, africa, the middle east and asia
two more universities on monday announced plans to help boost the number and expertise of peace corps volunteers with programs giving them graduate-level training or course credits for their service
starting with about 10 students in the 1988-89 school year, the university of alabama at birmingham will offer candidates for master's degrees in public health a chance to ``get their training before they do their (peace corps) service,'' said dr. juan m. navia, chairman of the school's public health department
some of our finest (public health graduate) students are the ones who have served in other countries as peace corps volunteers. and many of them have the frustration: `if only i had know this then,''' navia said at a news conference at the carter presidential center. ``we're going to reverse the order.''
peace corps director loret miller ruppe also signed an agreement monday with the university of south carolina in columbia, which will offer internship credit to special education graduate students who do a tour of duty in the peace corps
mrs. ruppe said the two programs are similar to one announced earlier for public health master's degree candidates at boston university, also starting next fall. and all three are modeled after a program for master's degree students in public policy at rutgers university, which will send its first group of volunteers to the peace corps this spring
these programs will help us ensure a steady flow of volunteers with the skills we need in developing countries,'' mrs. ruppe said
she said the corps hopes to double the number of volunteers by 1992 and to increase dramatically the number of minority volunteers, who now number about 110 out of 5,200
the peace corps is starting a number of innovative programs to help meet that goal
harvard university school of dentistry has agreed to send some of its fifth-year dental students to the peace corps for six-month stints, in an experiment with shorter tours of duty than the usual two years, she said
under another new program, teachers in virginia can take sabbaticals to spend a year in peace corps-sponsored teacher training centers around the world, she said
in northfield, vt., some military cadets at norwich university are participating in a peace corps alternative to campus rotc and eventual military service. a bill pending in congress would authorize $5 million a year for five years to enable the peace corps to test the rotc-alternative program elsewhere
both the alabama and south carolina programs will target minorities
also monday, helene robertson of birmingham, ala., a 77-year-old former peace corps volunteer to botswana, received the lillian carter award for enduring voluntary commitment
the award is named after former president jimmy carter's mother, who was in her 60s when she served in the peace corps in india
receiving ``leader for peace'' awards were lillian lewis, wife of rep. john lewis, d-ga., an original peace corps volunteer in 1961 and associate director of the institute for international affairs and development at atlanta university; atlanta mayor andrew young for a recruiting public service announcement he did for the peace corps; and the coca-cola co. for its financing of a peace corps program to re-establish contact with former volunteers
a funeral will be held wednesday for roger j. williams, a leading authority on nutrition who died at age 94
a professor emeritus at the university of texas, williams died saturday of pneumonia in an austin nursing home. he had been in ill health for several months, but still kept in touch with ut scientists, many of whom he persuaded to come to austin
williams' work in nutrition at the ut clayton foundation biochemical institute, which he founded, led to the discovery of more vitamins and their variants than at any other research facility in the world
he was particularly interested in the role nutrition played in physical and mental well-being. until he retired in 1985, williams worked regularly in his laboratory on the ut campus
williams was a proponent of ``biochemical individuality,'' a concept that no two people are exactly alike physiologically and therefore everyone has different nutritional requirements
one of williams' most significant accomplishments was the discovery and isolation of pantothenic acid, one of the ``universal vitamins'' required by all living cells and essential to life. later he discovered and named folic acid, a substance used by every cell in the body
survivors include his wife, phyllis, three sons, a daughter, nine grandchildren and 10 great-grandchildren
dr. david otis fuller, a fundamentalist preacher who helped found a children's radio ministry and the grand rapids baptist college and seminary, has died at age 84
fuller died sunday at blodgett memorial medical center, hours after complaining of faintess during a prayer meeting at wealthy park baptist church, where he was pastor until his 1974 retirement
born in brooklyn, n.y., fuller founded the children's bible hour, a grand rapids-based christian radio program now broadcast by 660 radio stations worldwide
he was one of the leading fundamentalist preachers in the country,'' said the rev. robert gage, minister of wealthy park baptist church. ``it is going to leave a big void for us.''
funeral services are scheduled for wednesday at wealthy park
fuller is survived by his wife, virginia; a daughter, mrs. beverly berman of west hartford, conn.; sons alan of golden, colo., and david of tuckahoe, n.y.; a sister, muriel fuller of new york city; 10 grandchildren and one great-grandson. with reagan congratulatory message and planned response. pickup 7th graf pvs ``denktash proposed...''</note>
cyprus' greek and turkish leaders sparred monday only a day after elections, with the turkish head proposing talks in neutral territory and the greek president-elect insisting they be held on his own turf
the dispute over a matter of protocol disappointed some who had for a new start in talks to reunify cyprus in a federation
the sparring began when turkish cypriot leader rauf denktash invited greek cypriot president-elect george vassiliou to informal talks on the future of the island, to be held in a neutral area. vassiliou countered with an invitation to denktash ``to come and see me at the presidential palace.''
i am the elected president of the cyprus republic and in that capacity i would be most happy to welcome mr. denktash as the leader of the turkish cypriot community,'' vassiliou said in a radio interview
denktash is president of the breakaway turkish republic of northern cyprus, which was proclaimed in 1983 and is internationally recognized only by turkey. he does not recognize vassiliou, who will be sworn in next sunday, as president of all cyprus
vassiliou, a millionaire businessman backed by the communist party, defeated veteran right-wing politician glafcos clerides in general elections sunday. only greek cypriots voted
an official announcement said president reagan sent vassiliou a message of congratulations, expressing the wish to continue relations with cyprus
i look forward, through you, to continuing the friendly relations between our two countries, a relationship which has been characterized by a special warmth and a constant effort to build mutual respect and understanding,'' reagan's message said
i know that you have the determination to make the effort to bring about the lasting peace which has so long escaped the people of cyprus,'' the message said
vassiliou said he will thank reagan in a message expressing hope the united states will more actively to persuade turkey to withdraw its troops
denktash proposed in his invitation to vassiliou that the talks be held at the ledra palace hotel, a u.n. headquarters on the green line dividing turkish and greek cypriots. he said the meeting ``would be between the leaders of the two politically equal parties or between the presidents of two equal political entities.''
vassiliou had said during his campaign that he was willing to meet with the turkish cypriots without preconditions
but his counter-offer to meet denktash at the presidential palace in the greek cypriot-controlled zone, citing his own role as president of cyprus and denktash only as leader of the turkish cypriot community, was certain to be rebuffed
in the interview with the british broadcasting corp., vassiliou indicated no new flexibility in the conflict between greek and turkish cypriots
he accused turkey of building up its military presence in the turkish cypriot zone in northern cyprus since the 1974 invasion which partitioned the island. the invasion followed a coup by greek cypriot extremists aimed at uniting the entire island with greece
the realities of cyprus are that in these years, turkey, instead of recucing its military presence here, has been building it up in every way,'' he said
he also accused turkey of bringing in 40,000 to 50,000 turkish settlers to beef up the turkish cypriot minority, which numbered 120,000 at the time of the invasion. the greek cypriot population is more than 500,000
after election results were announced early monday, vassiliou said he would work for the withdrawal of turkish troops and settlers, but woud try to achieve a spirit of rapprochement with the turkish cypriots
greek-turkish negotiations have been stalled since president spyros kyprianou, who lost a bid for a third term in the first round of elections feb. 14, rejected proposals for a two-zone federation proposed by the united nations in 1986
the proposals had been accepted by denktash, who now insists upon them as the basis for restarting talks
kyprianou had insisted that before any talks began on a federation, all turkish troops must withdraw and the turks must allow greek cypriot refugees, who fled after the 1974 invasion, to return to their homes in the north
the u.n. proposals suggested that talks on troop withdrawal and the ``right of return'' would be discussed by committees simultaneously with talks on the nature of the federation
secretary of state george p. shultz tasted the fruits of mikhail s. gorbachev's reforms first-hand monday as he hosted a candlelit dinner at a cooperative restaurant that was once a money-losing bar
the red-brick skazka (``fairy tale'') restaurant off southeastern moscow's taganka square would have been illegal before last year's decision by soviet authorities to loosen laws governing individual labor and cooperative ownership
as soon as we heard they were authorizing cooperatives, we decided to start one,'' said sergei v. kutuzov, the head of the nine-member collective that runs the skazka
the restaurant, which can seat 34 customers in its upstairs dining room, opened april 1 last year. its hearty russian fare swiftly made it so popular with muscovites and foreign residents that profits soared to as much as $23,300 a month, kutuzov said
skazka's friendly waitresses and prompt service are in stark contrast to the situation that prevails at most of moscow's state-owned restaurants, where customers sometimes wait for hours before being served
cooperatives are also more expensive than state-run restaurants, which has led some soviets to oppose them as socially unjust
the dinner menu offered shultz cost between $25 and $33 per person, kutuzov said, compared to an average of $3 to $8 for an evening meal in a government-owned restaurant
a table piled with sturgeon in aspic, pickled vegetables inside a pumpkin, bottles of mineral water and grapes was set out for shultz, who had finished two days of talks in moscow with top soviet officials, including gorbachev, the communist party leader
skazka's chefs also prepared homemade noodle soup with mushrooms, a cabbage soup called ``shchi,'' stuffed pork cutlets, dumplings with mushroom and chicken and small russian pancakes
shultz, who was accompanied by his wife helena and u.s. ambassador jack matlock, met in the dining room with some of the soviet union's top cultural figures and intellectuals, including cinematographer elem klimov, playwright mikhail shatrov, economist nikolai shmelov and writer vladimir soloukhin
reporters briefly allowed into the wood-paneled room before shultz arrived spotted one apparent concession to the vip guests _ bottles of georgian and french wines set out on a table
as a cooperative, the skazka normally does not have the right to serve alcohol
gorbachev said in mid-january that 13,000 co-ops had been established in the soviet union. he said more than 300,000 people were working for themselves within guidelines set by the government to encourage better services and goods than those provided by the state-run sector
the venture has been a clear success for the nine people who put up a total of $5,000 to launch the skazka. last month kutuzov, chairman of the skazka cooperative, took home $1,050, more than three times the average soviet wage of $330
the building that now contains the restaurant was once a bar favored by ``lyubers,'' body-building enthusiasts from a moscow suburb that some press reports have said prey on long-haired soviet youths who like western rock music
either because of its tough clientele, or because the health-conscious lyubers did not drink enough alcohol, the bar lost money, kutuzov said
now its clientele has radically changed, with foreigners making up as much as 90 percent of the dinner customers on a given evening, kutuzov said
the guided-missile frigate uss antrim has been selected to steam through the nation's mid-section this year for the navy's annual great lakes cruise, the service said monday
the cruise, part of the navy's campaign to recruit sailors, will send the antrim to 21 ports over three months
this annual navy event ... offers a unique opportunity for residents of the great lakes region to see first-hand a ship from today's modern navy,'' the service said
the antrim will begin its cruise with a june 16 stopover at port jefferson, n.y., the navy said. among the larger cities to be visited are montreal; windsor, ontario; milwaukee; chicago; duluth, minn.; erie, pa.; oswego, n.y., and toronto
the antrim will end the 1988 cruise in september with stops in baltimore and savannah, ga., on the way to its homeport in mayport, fla
vice president george bush stumped in south carolina monday, saying sen. strom thurmond's endorsement of rival bob dole raises the stakes in the state's march 5 republican presidential primary
i have great respect for sen. thurmond,'' said bush. ``it's going to make this an even more dramatic ground of confrontation.''
the south carolina gop primary comes just three days before the super tuesday round of contests in 20 other, mostly southern states. the four republican candidates have said their showing in south carolina will be crucial leading into super tuesday
during a three-hour visit to myrtle beach, bush spoke briefly at a civic club luncheon, addressed about 1,200 students and visitors at myrtle beach high school and then held a series of meetings with reporters
gov. carroll campbell, the chairman of bush's southern campaign accompanied the vice president and said the dole campaign has ``created a do-or-die situation'' by pushing for the south carolina senator's endorsement
everybody loves strom thurmond, i love strom thurmond. i think they've raised the stakes. they've said, `now we've got him; now we're going to win,''' campbell said
bush called south carolina ``a key state'' and campaign aides said he will likely spend at least four more days campaigning in the state prior to march 5
bush, with reporters in tow, stopped briefly at a luncheon meeting of the myrtle beach rotary club at a local seafood restaurant
i think i'm going to win in south carolina,'' bush said. ``if i win in south carolina, i will be the next president of the united states.''
bush flew to the state from texas, before heading on for additional stops in tennessee and missouri
the visit came on the eve of caucuses in minnesota and a primary in south dakota, but bush said, ``you've got limited resources and we've allocated to super tuesday and south carolina.''
sen. jesse helms has asked the cia to investigate allegations by a panamanian dissident that the agency passed personal information to panama's strong man, gen. manuel antonio noriega, about helms and sen. edward m. kennedy, it was disclosed monday
the request was made in a letter helms sent last week to cia director william webster following congressional testimony two weeks ago by jose i. blandon, a former noriega associate who is now a leading critic of panama's defense chief
in the letter, a copy of which was made available to the associated press, the north carolina republican said it is ``improper and illegal'' for the cia to maintain files on members of congress
at the time of blandon's testimony, the cia said it ``categorically denies'' his allegations
a cia spokeswoman, sharon foster, had no comment monday on helms' letter except to say that communications from members of congress are confidential but are taken seriously and are answered
in a separate letter to fbi director william sessions, helms asked whether the agency had ever passed on information about members of congress or their staffs to the cia and whether it ever it had engaged in wiretaps or surveillance on him or members of his staff
blandon, testifying before a senate subcommittee on feb. 9, said the cia passed to noriega data about helms, kennedy, d-mass., and two of their aides. the two senators have been among noriega's strongest critics on capitol hill, citing allegations of noriega's involvement in drug trafficking
helms said blandon's credibility ``appeared to be high.'' he added that he received information from other countries indicating the cia had delivered similar information to them on other senators
he asked webster whether the cia had ever maintained information on members of congress or their staffs and whether such information was ever passed on to any official of a foreign government, specifically the panamanian defense forces
helms indicated he was skeptical about the cia's denial, contending that it made an inquiry afterward to cia field offices and to the heads of u.s. agencies involved in national security issues as to whether the denial was accurate
ms. foster of the cia said she was unable to comment on that allegation
blandon, meanwhile, met under heavy guard monday at the u.s. courthouse with prosecutors investigating the iran-contra arms and money affair. he presumably was questioned by the staff of independent counsel lawrence e. walsh about noriega's agreement to train nicaraguan rebels at the request of lt. col. oliver north, a former national security council official who is a target of walsh's investigation
blandon was a key informant for federal prosecutors in florida who earlier this month obtained indictments charging noriega with taking at least $4.6 million in bribes to protect a major colombian drug ring
a principal witness in the drug conspiracy case against panamanian gen. manuel antonio noriega faces up to 20 years in prison when sentenced this week for his part in the ring which smuggled 500,000 pounds of marijuana and 1{ tons of cocaine into the united states
but steven michael kalish, 35, expects leniency for his testimony against noriega, which included kalish's report that he made made $900,000 in payoffs to the panamanian strongman
obviously, he's hoping he won't have to spend too much time in jail,'' said dick deguerin, kalish's friend and defense attorney in houston
kalish pleaded guilty a year ago during the trial of his partner, leigh bruce ritch, and has since emerged as a principal witness against noriega in the tampa conspiracy case. noriega also faces separate racketeering and drug charges in miami
ritch, 34, is serving a sentence of 30 years in prison
in the tampa case, kalish testified he gave noriega cash and jewelry in exchange for panamanian banking services and military protection
kalish told a u.s. senate panel last month that he became attracted to panama in 1983 because of its international banking facilities. he flew there with $2.4 million in cash and met with cesar rodriguez contreras at the bank of boston building in panama city, kalish said
rodriguez, who was slain in colombia in 1986, ``offered me an entire package of corporate banking and investment services and even armored car delivery from the airport,'' kalish testified
rodriguez introduced kalish to noriega at the general's home, kalish told the committee. at their first meeting, kalish delivered a suitcase with $300,000 cash, he said, and discussed his investment plans in panama. for the next 10 months, kalish told the panel, he used panama as his base, living in a three-story spanish-style house around the corner from noriega's
in november 1983, kalish bought the panamanian defense forces a boeing 727 jet to deliver shipments of drug profits from the united states to panama. in exchange for a bell 212 helicopter kalish bought for the defense forces, according to the charges, noriega arranged for an irrevocable $2 million line of credit for kalish from a panamanian bank
noriega also provided kalish with a diplomatic passport and agreed to let ritch and kalish use panamanian banks to launder more than $100 million in anticipated profits from a million-pound marijuana smuggling venture that kalish was organizing in colombia in early 1984, according to the federal charges
kalish began his career in drug trafficking at an early age, his friends say
the son of a mid-level gulf oil corp. executive who died in 1980, kalish was born in texas and grew up in bellaire, a comfortable suburb of houston. deguerin said kalish was already selling marijuana when he dropped out of the 11th grade
i don't believe he ever had a straight job,'' said deguerin
by age 27, kalish had been indicted twice in houston for trying to import 140,000 pounds of marijuana in two loads nine days apart in december 1979. the second seizure _ 100,000 pounds _ was then the largest ever in texas. kalish eventually fled, assumed a new identity and in 1983 settled in tampa, where he worked with ritch, says assistant u.s. attorney robert kennedy in tampa
kalish and ritch set up a smuggling organization and a sophisticated nationwide distribution network that made more than $200 million in four years
the kalish-ritch organization began to fall apart when the fbi arrested kalish on july 26, 1984, as he was boarding a chartered lear jet under an assumed name at tampa international airport
lyn nofziger's defense attorneys filed motions monday to set aside the former presidential aide's illegal lobbying convictions on the grounds that prosecutors failed to prove he violated the law
the defense also filed a motion for a new trial, contending that u.s. district judge thomas a. flannery erroneously instructed jurors about determining whether the issues nofziger lobbied about were of ``direct and substantial'' interest to the white house
nofziger, 63, was convicted feb. 11 of three counts of illegally lobbying former white house colleagues on behalf of wedtech corp., a maritime engineers union and the manufacturer of the air force a-10 anti-tank plane
the former white house political director faces a potential two-year prison term and a $10,000 fine for each of the three convictions. he is scheduled to be sentenced march 25
in its motions in u.s. district court, the defense repeated contentions made throughout the four-week trial that the prosecution team headed by independent counsel james c. mckay failed to prove that the issues nofziger raised with former colleagues were ``particular matters'' of ``direct and substantial interest'' to the white house
the gross insufficiency of the evidence mandates that the guilty verdict ... against mr. nofziger b set aside and that a judgment of acquittal be entered,'' defense lawyer robert plotkin and e. lawrence barcella said in their pleadings
in asking for a new trial, the defense said the definition of ``direct and substantial interest'' that flannery gave the jury during final instructions ``clearly encompassed interest well beyond the scope of the statute.''
this instruction allowed jurors to confuse the ``personal interest of certain representatives of the white house'' with ``direct and substantial'' interest, the defense said
for instance, references in testimony to pier f. talenti, a volunteer on nofziger's white house staff who visited wedtech corp.'s plant, might be the only basis for the jury to conclude the white house had an interest in wedtech's bid for a military engine contract, the defense said
although he was not called as a witness, talenti was described by a former wedtech executive as expressing interest in the company's bid for a contract to build small engines for the army in 1981
an army procurement official also testified that talenti urged consideration of wedtech's bid that year
the defense said flannery's ``internally inconsistent and confusing'' instruction ``failed adequately to explain the comparative and relative importance of a matter to the white house, and it did not instruct the jury to place that interest in its proper context.''
nofziger, who left the white house in early 1982, was convicted, among other things, for sending an april 8, 1982, memo to then-presidential counselor edwin meese iii urging support for wedtech's efforts to persuade reluctant army officials to award the $32 million contract
the very purpose of the communication to mr. meese was to create and stimulate interest, a contact that is not prohibited'' by the law, the defense said
meese, now attorney general, testified at the trial that he couldn't recall receiving nofziger's note, which suggested he enlist the support of reagan and other top administration officials. bgng `former tv ...; inserts new 24th graf bgng ``former colorado...'' with hart figures</note>
former tv evangelist pat robertson took out $5.5 million in loans last month as the presidential contenders headed to the cash-draining super tuesday primaries, and george bush remained by far the richest candidate with more than $9 million in the bank
among democratic hopefuls, money leader michael dukakis had a $4 million bankroll, his financial statement shows
robertson reported $5.5 million in loans and contributions of $1.3 million during january, in addition to the $6.5 million he got in federal matching funds. robertson had earlier said he might not use the matching funds because he was philosophically opposed to the public financing system
he ended the month with $5.5 million in cash on hand, second only to bush's warchest, but robertson had an outstanding debt of $6 million
robertson's campaign did not immediately return calls monday evening to answer questions about where he got the loan or what it was for
in an interesting twist, bush, while raising the most money, has actually spent less against the overall primary season spending limit than any of the other republican contenders, including the struggling campaign of rep. jack kemp of new york
the bush forces have been carefully husbanding their resources to ensure they don't reach the $27 million limit too early in the nominating campaign, thereby shorting themselves for the contests that come after the super tuesday races on march 8
the latest campaign figures are contained in reports filed over the weekend with the federal election commission. the reports cover totals for the month of january
as of jan. 31, the vice president had spent $10.7 million against the $27 million cap, compared to kemp's $12.8 million. sen. bob dole, r-kan., had spent $13.5 million and ended january with $4.2 million in the bank
robertson reported spending a whopping $17.5 million against the cap, and his report showed heavy expenditures across the super tuesday states, topped by more than $1 million spent in texas. by contrast, bush spent $335,743 in texas, dole spent $81,645 there, and kemp spent $11,312
on the democratic side, none of the candidates were approaching that level, with dukakis spending the most against the ceiling, at $7.8 million
kemp continued to squeak by financially, taking out $750,000 worth of loans in january and ending the month with a debt of $1.3 million. kemp hoped to pay that off with the help of nearly $600,000 in government matching funds he expects to receive by the end of this month, said campaign political director charlie black
kemp aides are relying on a heavy mail solicitation which has brought in a steady flow of money in recent weeks, including most of the $1 million kemp raised in january, he said. kemp is netting about $400,000 a week in fund-raising, black said
black insisted the campaign is not in serious financial trouble, though he conceded, ``sure, i'd like to have another couple million to spend on super tuesday.'' he said he has budgeted about $1.5 million for the campaign through super tuesday, and is spending between $250,000 and $300,000 on television for south carolina's march 5 primary
black said that kemp's spending against the overall limit is not a problem because he will buy tv time in only seven super tuesday states
among the democrats, sen. paul simon of illinois and rep. richard gephardt of missouri both ended january in debt, and had to take out loans to keep their campaigns afloat in february's iowa caucuses and new hampshire primary
simon took out a $523,674 loan in january, and ended the month with a $691,069 debt and only $401,176 in the bank
gephardt did not report any january loans but, according to aides, did borrow money this month. he entered february with $820,260 in debts and $172,477 in cash on hand
democrats michael dukakis, the massachusetts governor, and sen. albert gore jr. of tennessee, on the other hand, were in good shape _ dukakis with $4 million in the bank and $511,789 in bills to pay off, and gore with $2 million on hand and $84,248 in obligations
gore ignored the iowa race to concentrate on the super tuesday states, but he raised very little money during the time the other candidates were campaigning hard in iowa and new hampshire. he collected only $180,746 in contributions during january, in addition to the $1.8 million in matching funds he got, his report showed
dukakis raised $804,839 in contributions and got $3.5 million matching funds
most candidates got very large matching fund payments in january, the first month the government funds were released, and the sums were based on the candidates' fund-raising for all preceding months. candidates can receive matching funds from the federal treasury for every contribution of $250 or less. the fund is supported by the $1 checkoff on individual tax returns
democratic contender jesse jackson reported raising $610,036 in donations, plus $598,021 in matching funds during january, ending the month with $509,978 in cash on hand and $354,881 in obligations
former colorado sen. gary hart ended the month with $615,547 in cash on hand after collecting $70,303 in contributions and $937,325 in matching funds
simon's finance director, bob edgar, announced that the senator has raised more than $1 million in donations so far this year, and in the two weeks following the feb. 8 iowa contest set a record for his campaign
his report shows that in january he raised $534,259 in contributions, $1.9 million in matching funds, and $523,674 in loans
gephardt collected $212,702 in contributions and $1.9 million in matching funds. gephardt's campaign manager, bill carrick, has said that the congressman will not buy tv advertising in all 20 super tuesday states, but will concentrate on texas, arkansas, louisiana, oklahoma and florida
as of the jan. 31 report, however, gephardt had spent very little in those states _ for example, a total of $69,809 in texas, compared to dukakis' $301,829, and $23,454 in florida, compared to dukakis' $206,861 there
in arkansas, louisiana and oklahoma, gephardt had spent less than $5,000 each as of the beginning of this month
dukakis has also far outspent gore in the south, a region in which the tennessee senator has pinned his presidential hopes
all firefighters scheduled to work monday night's shift joined scores of other colleagues in calling in sick, leaving providence's fire protection to 87 firefighters who have been on duty around the clock since friday
meanwhile, a superior court judge delayed ruling on the city's request for contempt citations against 110 firefighters who called in sick over the weekend in defiance of a back-to-work order
judge americo campanella gave union president leo j. miller until 10 a.m. tuesday to inform all 450 members of the union that they must to return to work under the temporary restraining order issued saturday by another judge
miller was also ordered to furnish a list of all firefighters who had called in sick over the weekend and outline the nature of their illness or the illness of family members they said they were staying home to care for
city officials went from home to home monday leaving notices for firefighters of the contempt hearing. campanella indicated his decision to put off ruling on the matter hinged on the relatively low number of firefighters contacted either by the city or miller
the union represents 450 of the city's total uniformed force of 479. campanella indicated his decision to put off ruling on the matter hinged on the relatively low number of firefighters contacted either by the city or miller
miller, a fire captain, denies the union orchestrated any sickout
if found to be a job action as moise and city officials assert, the sickout would be illegal under rhode island law
the dispute apparently concerns language in a contract ratified by firefighters in december that the city has yet to sign
miller said the city is trying to renege on a provision that calls for an officer to be placed in charge of each rescue unit. union members also complain that promises to replacement worn-out or damaged equipment like boots, helmets and firecoats have not been fulfilled
all but one of the 51 firefighters scheduled to report for work at 8 a.m. saturday called in sick friday, said fire chief michael f. moise
an additional 60 called in sick for the shift that was supposed to begin at 6 a.m. sunday, moise said
assistant fire chief gilbert h. mclaughlin jr. told campanella that all of the firefighters scheduled to report at 6 p.m. monday had called in sick
i have nobody coming in,'' mclaughlin testified
the union represents 450 of the city's total uniformed force of 479. the firefighters, divided into four platoons, work two 10-hour days and two 12-hour days, then are off four days
moise said the 87 firefighters in the platoon that has been kept on duty since friday evening will stay on the job until the issue is resolved
the chief testified the average absentee level is seven to eight firefighters for any particular shift
miller agreed the number of sick firefighters was ``unusually high.''
most of the people he contacted after the restraining order was issued said either they or someone in their family had a 24-hour virus, miller said
miller said he called in sick because his mother, who has heart trouble, also had the flu
ragosta tried to show the sickout presented a danger to the public health and safety. moise said he was becoming concerned that fatigue among firefighters on the job since friday might affect their ability to operate sophisticated equipment and their response time in a crisis
he said the sickout was costing $20,000 a day in overtime and related expenses
high winds blew across much of the nation monday, felling trees and power lines and prompting weather forecasters to post gale warnings in coastal and lake areas
an intense low pressure system over ontario produced the gusty south to southwesterly wind from the southern plains across the tennessee and ohio valleys and into the lower great lakes region and vermont
blasts of up to 120 mph were recorded at mines peak, colo., in the early-morning hours. power outages due to wind knocking down utility poles were reported at fort smith, ark., where several carport awnings were blown loose in gusts up to 52 mph
a gust of 61 mph whipped erie, pa., shortly after noon, while wind of 50 mph and up was clocked at burlington, vt.; buffalo, n.y.; cleveland; st. louis; indianapolis; cheyenne, wyo.; and rapid city, s.d
high-wind warnings and wind advisories were posted for parts of western minnesota, western texas, lakes erie and huron and the northern new england coast
meanwhile, strong northerly winds of 25-40 mph brought colder weather to the northern and central plains
temperatures dropped from the mid-40s to the mid-20s in one hour at nunn and briggsdale, colo., early monday morning as a cold front plowed through the area
arctic air accompanied the strong winds across minnesota and north dakota. the temperature at warroad, minn., dropped from 30 degrees to 8 degrees in two hours as the cold air pushed through
snow was scattered across parts of montana, wyoming, northeastern colorado and northern maine. two to 5 inches of snow was reported in the casper, wyo., area
temperatures around the nation at 2 p.m. est ranged from 11 at international falls, minn., to 81 at mcallen, texas. the early-morning low for the nation was 14 below zero at gunnison, colo
for tuesday, snow was forecast from northern new england across parts of new york state; scattered snow showers or flurries in northern sections of the ohio valley and the upper great lakes; widely scattered snow showers in the mountains of montana and colorado; rain from central and southern new england across the middle atlantic coast states into the tennessee valley; and rain showers from the central gulf coast through northern florida, georgia and the western carolinas
temperatures will remain below freezing across the northern half of the plains, the upper half of the mississippi valley and the great lakes region, with readings only in the single digits over portions of north dakota and northern minnesota. temperatures will reach the 60s and 70s from california across the desert southwest, and from southern and central new mexico across much of texas, the central gulf coast states and the southern atlantic coast states, with readings in the low 80s in parts of the desert southwest, extreme southern texas and southern florida. elsewhere, temperatures will range from the upper 30s to the 50s
ron sexton's reward for winning a school contest was nothing to snort at. then again, it probably didn't make him squeal with delight
sexton, a history teacher and wrestling coach at wilmington high school, came in first in a school project to raise money for children's hospital in columbus. his payoff _ he had to kiss a pig
he put his mouth where the smart money was, planting a kiss on the snout of a pig during a pep rally friday while the students and faculty watched
sexton won a contest in which students and teachers put money in gallon milk jugs as their way of choosing a sow smoocher. there were 45 teachers up for votes, which cost 25 cents to cast, said home economics teacher bonnie hansen
the contest, dubbed ``squeal of fortune,'' raised nearly $250
auburn residents better not plan to serve pie this weekend _ not with a horde of curly, larry and moe fans headed their way
three stooges aficionados from throughout the nation are expected to converge on this central maine city to share recollections of the zany antics that entertained generations of moviegoers and television viewers
the two-day convention, which begins saturday, will feature about 30 dealers in stooges memorabilia, imitators of the threesome and, of course, a pie fight
they kind of created the pie fight,'' said ron eugley, the convention organizer. ``in about a quarter of their shorts, there's somebody getting a pie in the face.''
eugley, a 36-year-old salesman from auburn, said the convention has been promoted in the national magazine published by the three stooges fan club and is expected to draw more than 700 fans
the convention will be addressed by telephone by emil sitka, a supporting actor for the stooges who is writing a book about the late comics
stooges movies will be shown throughout the convention, eugley said, including some never seen by the general public
curly was married four times _ he had quite the thing for women _ and we'll have some films of his weddings,'' eugley said. he said convention-goers will also see films of moe howard entertaining at a backyard barbecue
proceeds from the convention will go to the american cancer society, in part because howard died of the disease. two weeks</head>
an oil rig helicopter and a phantom jet fighter came within a half-mile of colliding over the north sea on monday, according to the helicopter firm. it was the third reported near-miss in two weeks in britain's crowded skies
the earlier incidents involved jetliners carrying hundreds of passengers and prompted calls for an inquiry into growing air congestion before the summer travel season begins. the government on monday accused air traffic controllers of fomenting ``public hysteria'' and said there was no cause for alarm
bristow helicopters said its puma craft carrying 11 passengers and two crew members from an oil rig 165 miles northeast of aberdeen climbed sharply as it neared the scottish city after air traffic controllers warned that it was on a collision course with a royal air force jet
bristow said its helicopter moved up from an altitude of 2,000 feet and the phantom passed below. both aircraft landed safely and no one was reported injured
a bristow spokesman said the helicopter pilot filed an ``air miss'' report with the civil aviation authority, or caa
earlier monday, transport secretary paul channon promised an investigation into an incident sunday involving a british caledonian ba 1-11 and a pan american boeing 727
channon told the house of commons the jetliners came within 2,000 yards while flying over southern england but he said they were not in danger of colliding
he said the number of near-misses had declined sharply in the last 10 years. ``we musn't be complacent, neither must we overreact,'' he said
in the previous incident this month, a british airways lockheed l1011 and a balkan bulgarian tu 54 with a total of 543 people aboard narrowly avoided colliding. the caa called that an ``exceptionally serious'' case and channon said the authority took the unusual step of asking the department of transport to make an independent investigation
according to the caa, the number of near-misses per 100,000 flying hours in british air space decreased from 6.2 in 1980 to 2.8 in 1986
it said there were 12 incidents involving serious risk last year, unchanged from 1986
chris stock, president of britain's largest air traffic controllers' union, said the control system is nearly overloaded
the system is working at full blast,'' said stock, head of the 1,500-member guild of air traffic controllers. ``if a mistake is made then there is very little room to maneuver.''
he said safety should improve when a new computer system is inaugurated in 1990 and a new control center in 1995. the guild has demanded increased manpower in the meantime, saying five job vacancies at the main control center in west drayton have not been filled since september
the caa on monday claimed the controllers were promoting public alarm to gain leverage in negotiations over working conditions, including the number of controllers on duty at peak times
the controllers are putting pressure on the caa by harping on the subject of safety,'' said the authority spokesman who was not identified in line with government policy. ``anonymous controllers are constantly feeding information engendering alarm and concern.'' in washington, with 3 grafs to update with robertson figures; picks up 19th graf pvs, on the democratic; new 4th-to-last graf, at lander, with robertson calling for school prayer</note>
massachusetts gov. michael dukakis said monday he might authorize military operations against terrorist base camps if he wins the white house. gop hopeful bob dole taunted vice president bush for ceasing efforts in south dakota and minnesota, battlegrounds for this week's campaign contests
i don't know where george bush is,'' dole said in duluth. ``later today we're going to send him a map of minnesota so at least he gets a little idea where it is.''
bush was in south carolina and tennessee, virtually conceding the south dakota primary and minnesota caucuses to his gop rivals. but he predicted he wouldn't be hurt by that
i think i'm going to be the next president of the united states,'' the vice president said in myrtle beach, s.c
dole is heavily favored to win the south dakota contest. but he sounded less confident of his chances for victory in minnesota, where former television evangelist pat robertson and rep. jack kemp have waged energetic campaigns
on the democratic side, dukakis has invested heavily in minnesota in hopes of bagging a win outside his new england backyard. he, rep. richard gephardt, sen. paul simon, sen. albert gore jr. and jesse jackson have campaigned heavily in south dakota as well
gephardt campaigned in south dakota and wyoming, while his spokesman accused gore of hypocrisy and released a list of what he said were switches in position the tennessee senator has made on issues ranging from abortion to farm policy to spending for the mx missiles
that was an attempt to turn the tables on gore, who has vigorously attacked gephardt for switching his position on key issues
dukakis made a brief visit to washington, where he took part in a national governors' association meeting with president reagan
he emerged from the session to blast the president's anti-terrorism policy and say the united states would be living with the consequences of secret arms sales to iran for a long time
you never, ever make concessions to terrorism,'' dukakis said. ``if you ever do it, then your policy is worthless.''
he added: ``this is international crime, pure and simple and you fight it the way you fight crime _ with tough police work, with effective undercover operations, with military operations against terrorist base camps if necessary.''
dukakis did not elaborate on what conditions might prompt him to authorize military operations
but white house spokesman marlin fitzwater said such talk could conceivably make life more difficult for a hostage. ``i would simply urge caution on everyone's part, including political candidates,'' he said
simon was in minnesota during the day, invoking the name of the state's late sen. hubert h. humphrey as he bid to score well in the caucuses
the illinois senator was cheered enthusiastically by a crowd at gustavus adolphus college in st. peter, minn., where he said he would propose a mutual nuclear test ban treaty with the soviet union if elected
simon once said he needed to win in either minnesota or south dakota this week to keep his campaign alive, but has since pulled back from that standard. ``i am going to do respectably,'' he said, adding he believes the democratic race will stay muddled beyond the march 8 round of contests _ mostly in southern and border states _ known as super tuesday
in washington, financial reports filed with the federal election commission showed bush's campaign with the biggest bankroll _ $9 million _ going into the super tuesday primaries. among democratic hopefuls, dukakis led with $4 million on hand
robertson reported $5.5 million in loans and contributions of $1.3 million during january, in addition to the $6.5 million he got in federal matching funds. robertson had earlier said he might not use the matching funds because he was philosophically opposed to the public financing system
he ended the month with $5.5 million in cash on hand, second only to bush's warchest, but robertson had an outstanding debt of $6 million. robertson's campaign did not immediately return calls monday evening to answer questions about where he got the loan or what it was for
with most of the campaign still to go, bush had spent $10.7 million against the $27 million campaign limit, compared with kemp's $12.8 million and dole's $13.5 million. robertson reported spending a whopping $17.5 million against the cap, and his report showed heavy expenditures across the super tuesday states
on the democratic side, dukakis had spent the most against the ceiling, at $7.8 million
also on monday, democrat gore won the endorsement of alabama sen. howell heflin as he continued lining up support of as many southern politicians as possible in advance of super tuesday
but in an unusual news conference, heflin said he wanted to ``educate'' gore on some of the issues. ``he's not too far to the left, but i've got to try to bring him to the middle a little bit,'' heflin said. ``i'm going to work on him.''
in the republican race, kemp appeared before an economics class at the university of minnesota and called bush's advocacy of a four-year budget freeze ``embarrassing.''
said kemp, ``can you think of anything more yawning in a peresidential campaign that having the republican candidate running for president say, `if i become president i'm going to freeze the budget for four years?'''
robertson was in south carolina, where he has declared he needs a win in the march 5 primary. he announced his support for legislation to limit textile imports and challenged bush to do the same
at lander college in greenwood, robertson won applause when he called for school prayer. it used to be, he said, that ``little children could pray in the public schools of america and we've got to see that once again.''
dole won the endorsement of south carolina sen. strom thurmond
the kansas senator's campaign manager, former sen. bill brock, took several sharp jabs at bush and his campaign. he accused the vice president's campaign of taking two ``cheap shots'' before the iowa caucuses and the new hampshire primary
he said the first attempt failed. the second one ``worked short term. we'll see whether they worked in the long term,'' he said. with ball's likely nomination and webb's resignation to be accepted at white house tuesday.</note>
navy secretary james h. webb abruptly resigned monday, accusing defense secretary frank c. carlucci of abandoning the reagan administration's goal of a 600-ship navy and of demonstrating a lack of leadership and vision
this building needs to be led,'' webb said in telling reporters of his decision. ``it needs leadership. it needs some vision. i'm saying that if i had a piece of advice to give to secretary carlucci, it would be to spend a lot more time with the top leaders in this building
he's been spending a lot of time with the state department and a lot of time on the hill. i think they (pentagon leaders) need to feel his vision and to understand what he believes in.''
webb, 42, a highly decorated marine veteran of vietnam combat and the author of the best-selling vietnam war novel, ``fields of fire,'' left after only 10 months in his pentagon position
he told president reagan in his resignation letter that the president could have realized his cherished goal of building a 600-ship fleet, were it not for carlucci
an administration official who asked not to be identified said carlucci wants to recommend that william l. ball iii, assistant to the president for legislative affairs, be nominated to replace webb. the source said the white house probably would announce ball's nomination on tuesday, at the same time it announces formal acceptance of webb's resignation
talking to reporters, webb accused carlucci of ordering him to keep quiet about internal budget fighting, saying the defense chief had written him a note saying he should deny news stories reporting it was the defense department _ and not the navy _ proposing to mothball ships
now, i'm not going to deny the truth,'' webb said
carlucci declined to respond to the criticism, issuing a written statement saying only that he had learned of webb's resignation decision ``with regret.''
the pentagon added in a separate statement, however, that if webb had decided he could not ``defend the department's decisions'' on the budget, then ``under the circumstances, he has done the honorable thing.''
white house spokesman marlin fitzwater said: ``secretary carlucci is having to make some very difficult adjustments in the pentagon to accommodate budgetary reductions. secretary webb indicates he is unable to operate under these constraints, but i know the president feels he has given very valuable service to the country ...''
sen. edward m. kennedy, d-mass., chairman of the senate armed services subcommittee that oversees the navy budget, said in a statement: ``i'm sorry to see jim webb go. in his brief stint, he impressed the armed services committee as an able secretary.''
although i am not endorsing his views, his resignation has obviously launched an important new stage of the debate about pentagon priorities and the size and type of navy we need.''
three times, webb said, the navy developed a plan for cutting its fiscal 1989 budget in such a way that the goal of expanding the fleet to 600 ships could still be reached. and each time, he said, the navy's advice was ``ignored'' by carlucci
i can only conclude that the decision to reduce the level of our fleet to a point that it may never reach the 600-ship goal was motivated by other than military and strategic reasoning,'' webb wrote reagan
webb and others have argued that 600 ships were the minimum needed for the navy to meet its worldwide commitments
since his recommendations ``were rejected by your secretary of defense, i am unable to support him personally or to defend this amended budget during budget deliberations (in congress),'' webb said
consequently, i find it necessary to resign from my position as ecretary of the navy.''
webb's decision to step down surprised navy and pentagon officials alike
he assumed the post only last april, seven months before carlucci succeeded caspar w. weinberger
the navy, like all the services, was ordered in early december to slash its fiscal 1989 budget proposal to comply with a new deficit-reduction plan. ultimately, webb said, the navy ended up being told to cut $12.3 billion from its original spending plan
as finally approved by carlucci, the navy has told congress it wants $96.4 billion in budget authority and intends to mothball 16 navy frigates, webb said
the pentagon said the mothballing would leave the navy with 580 ships by the end of fiscal 1989 and that it can still build to 600 by fiscal 1992
webb asserted, however, the mothballing is unnecessary and the navy would never reach 600 ships
one of the sad things about this is that this is one of the few goals of the reagan administration that was really obtainable, at pretty low cost,'' webb said
the navy could have transferred those 16 frigates to the naval reserve ``for well under $100 million'' rather than place them in mothballs, preserving them as ``deployable'' warships ready for an emergency, he declared
webb declined to speculate on why carlucci might have rejected such options
but in another broadside at the new defense secretary, webb complained that once carlucci arrived, ``the number of people who are participating in the decisions (became) smaller.''
webb, one of the youngest men to ever become navy secretary, is a naval academy graduate
he came to the pentagon in 1984 under weinberger, assuming the post of assistant defense secretary for reserve affairs. he had resigned and was preparing to leave government service in early 1987 when the president asked him to replace john f. lehman, the first navy secretary of the reagan administration
webb said monday he intended to return to his work as a novelist and possibly, journalism as well. bgng: australian foreign... adds 4 grafs on criticism</note>
angry, defiant palestinians marked ``martyrs' day'' in the occupied territories monday with graveside speeches and stone-throwing demonstrations as they remembered the 61 arabs killed in clashes since december
attorney general yosef harish meanwhile released a letter to defense minister yitzhak rabin, criticizing rabin's policy of allowing soldiers to beat protesters
you cannot use force as a means of punishment, abuse or humiliation,'' harish said
one palestinian was shot and wounded monday in this west bank town 10 miles north of jerusalem and another was shot during a demonstration at jabaliya refugee camp in the gaza strip, according to hospital sources. the army said it was checking the reports
australian foreign minister bill hayden, attending a dinner in jerusalem with foreign minister shimon peres, criticized israel's ``sometimes arbitrary and violent way'' of dealing with the disturbances
the jersualem post reported the international committee of the red cross in geneva has strongly protested the israeli actions
about 1,500 additional police officers, brought in from throughout israel, flooded jerusalem in advance of the visit of u.s. secretary of state george p. shultz, set to begin thursday. the reinforcements will back up the holy city's normal contingent of 1,000 officers
authorities fear shultz's presence will lead to an upsurge in violence by arabs pressing their case for an end to 20 years of israeli occupation of the west bank and gaza, seized during the 1967 middle east war
the latest spate of unrest started dec. 8 and has resulted in scores of deaths, hundreds of injuries and arrests
in kfar naami, a village of 2,000 inhabitants six miles west of here, about 1,500 arabs marched through the streets chanting anti-israeli and anti-american slogans
in a fiery speech at the graveside of one of the two village residents who have died from army bullets, a speaker rejected the shultz trip
from this grave we condemn the shultz visit and the united states. these masses,'' he said gesturing to the crowd, ``are led by the plo. we will continue to achieve our goals and not satisfy american policy in the region.''
grafitti in kfar naami read: ``no for the visit of shultz; yes, to the palestinian government. yes to the plo.''
despite the rhetoric, palestinian moderates are trying to persuade plo leader yasser arafat to lift his ban against local palestinians talking to shultz. if washington's peace plan is to succeed, shultz needs to bring palestinians into the talks
in an interview monday in tunisia, arafat said the palestine liberation organization was ready to meet with the united states
we have declared that we are ready to meet with all of the permanent members of the security council, including the american administration,'' arafat said, speaking on cbs-tv's ``this morning.''
without a meeting with palestinians, the shultz initiative is bound to fail,'' said sari nusseibeh, a university professor and one of six arabs originally slated to meet shultz
conservative prime minister yitzhak shamir has expressed strong reservations about the american initiative. while saying he is willing to listen and consider any ideas from washington, he clearly does not like the american initiative which revolves around swapping land for peace. he also is worried about moving too quickly
in a speech to european jewish leaders sunday night, shamir said a long period of practical experience and coexistence is needed before the question of sovereignty can be broached
any attempt to force the pace and to shorten the period would be a detriment to the very essence of the (camp david) agreement,'' he said
army radio said shamir told the parliament's foreign affairs and security committee israel will not withdraw from the territories, even under pressure
shamir's labor party rival, foreign minister peres, has largely accepted the american initiative
in the upcoming days we will have a political discussion in the cabinet,'' shamir told the radio monday. ``then we shall see whether we (he and peres) can talk to mr. shultz as partners or not.''
the radio quoted the prime minister as saying he and peres could be forced to call early elections because of their disagreements
justice ministry spokeswoman etty eshed said the attorney general's letter was prompted by the many complaints received from palestinians in the territories
i checked them and found the number of the complaints ... raised suspicion that defining these cases as `aberrations' does not reflect reality,'' harish wrote
hayden, nearing the end of a middle east tour, told peres, ``australians are deeply concerned by what's happening today in the unrest in the occupied territories ... the sometimes arbitrary and violent way in which it has been met.''
in his response, peres said israel ``did not want to dominate'' the palestinians and added: ``i know my country has been painfully criticized by countries of the world. we take it seriously, with chagrin.''
the jerusalem post quoted maurice aubert, vice chairman of the international committee of the red cross, as saying a letter recently was delivered to israel's icrc representative in geneva calling on shamir ``to bring to an immediate end these serious acts perpetrated against civilians.''
it said the letter declared that ``thousands of people have been the victims of brutality and grave ill-treatment at the hands of israeli soldiers.'' graf. pick up 2d graf pvs bgng: lt. col. eduardo...</note>
a renegade air force colonel charged in the 1986 slaying of a leftist leader surrendered to the military monday and proclaimed his innocence, military sources said
lt. col. eduardo ..
police increased patrols monday at a fundamentalist christian television station that has been hit by sporadic sniper fire twice in a week
no one was injured in the latest incident, on sunday morning, said wmpv-tv owner ed bowlds
we just think it's some kind of weirdo,'' bowlds said. ``he's not trying to hit anybody. that's obvious. it may be somebody wanting publicity.''
glenda mcleod, a producer at the station, said one employee was inside the building sunday, but the shots were fired into the eaves. she also said glass was broken in the front door, but not by gunfire. she said she thought someone had attempted to break into the building
police placed the building under surveillance after bullets hit it wednesday. there have been no arrests in either incident
police capt. tommy hart said two additional patrol cars were assigned to the area. he said the sniper could have been encouraged by the station's on-the-air comment that officers seemed to take a long time to arrive after the first shooting incident
ms. mcleod said a caller friday threatened the lives of four employees, including herself and bowlds
we just don't know what this crazy person is up to,'' the producer said
bowlds has reported other threatening calls since the station opened three years ago. is not currently secretary-treasurer</note>
the new operators of united press international pledged monday to reverse the news agency's financial losses but said they have not decided how to achieve that goal
it's a dynamic situation now,'' paul steinle, upi's new president, said at a news conference. hirings, firings and management changes are frozen for the next four to six weeks while the team draws up a business plan, he said
dr. earl w. brian, chairman of wnw group inc., the media investment group that assumed control of upi late friday, said he and his associates will ``listen to everybody'' in devising a survival plan for upi
we are going to employ the best skills we have to come up with a plan to take this business into the future,'' brian said. ``and i don't know what that is today.''
steinle, 48, said he believed the market would support two general wire services, upi and the associated press. ``i hope that is true,'' he said, adding he would not know the answer until he had interviewed current and potential clients
we think it can survive in some form or another,'' steinle said
brian, 45, is a physician who served as health and welfare commissioner in california under then-gov. ronald reagan. he formed wnw group for the purpose of taking control of stock owned by mario vazquez rana, the mexican publisher
we purchased for cash _ a substantial cash payment _ an irrevocable proxy for control of upi,'' brian said. vazquez rana owns 95 percent of upi
brian refused to say how much money was involved over the 10-year agreement, but he said the amount vazquez rana receives will be influenced by what wnw finds in its study
vazquez rana, who paid $41 million to bring upi out of chapter 11 protection proceedings in u.s. bankruptcy court in june 1986, relinquished all control over the stock. brian had waged an unsuccessful effort to buy upi before the company emerged from chapter 11
brian and steinle said vazquez rana reportedly sank $50 million into upi, which is thought to be losing about $1 million a month
while the new management studies upi's financial picture and talks with news executives around the country, brian said his company will underwrite upi's losses. ``yes, it's going to cost a million a month to sit here and do a plan,'' he said
brian said it is possible wnw may conclude there is no way to turn around upi's finances, which presumably could lead to shutting down the agency. he called that scenario a ``low probability.''
brian is chairman of infotechnology inc., also known as infotech, an electronic communications company based in new york. infotech's subsidiaries include financial news network, a 24-hour cable television service providing stock prices; data broadcasing corp.; questech capital corp.; tv value mart corp.; and comtex scientific corp
upi is into a number of areas that are very synergistic to what infotech does,'' brian said. they include computer translations, electronic data base marketing and electronic publishing
infotech, which will be a minority shareholder in wnw, is a public company. brian owns about 13 percent of the company and merrill lynch co., owns about 14.5 percent
from infotech's perspective, we see this as an investment opportunity,'' brian said. ``we believe this company has a value greater than the amount of money it is losing.''
brian, who wore a upi pin in his lapel, said he had other reasons for wanting the company to survive
as a conservative republican, as far as i'm concerned, upi is an extremely important asset to the american people,'' he told the los angeles times over the weekend
once a plan is in hand, brian said he will look for new investors. they could include upi's employees, he said. ultimately, vazquez rana's ownership share will be reduced by the infusion of new stockholders, he said
brian was prohibited from buying upi outright partly because of an agreement the wire service guild, representing the agency's editorial employees, made with vazquez rana. that deal calls for the union to have the right of first refusal to buy upi should vazquez rana sell it
dan carmichael, a guild negotiator, said the union will ask brian to maintain the money-losing company as a ``general, international news'' organization. the company has about 1,400 employees after laying off about 100 people in recent month
representatives of the wsg and its parent, the newspaper guild, met for about an hour and a half with steinle on monday. carmichael described the meeting as ``businesslike.''
the guild asked for a copy of the financial deal between wnw and vazquez rana as well as use of the company's internal message wire for guild purposes
wsg president kevin keane told steinle that the upi work force is unsettled because of the fequent turmoil, and allowing the union to communicate with staffers on a timely basis would boost morale, he said
steinle said he could not guarantee there would not be layoffs in the future, but he noted a freeze was in effect, a wsg statement said
al rossiter jr., upi's executive editor, said ``morale has soared'' since the staff learned of the deal. ``i am very optimistic,'' he said
steinle, a former president of financial news network, has a long career in journalism, mainly the broadcast industry. before joining fnn in 1983, he was a news director of king-tv in seattle, wash., and at wixt-tv in syracuse, n.y
a native of chillicothe, ohio, he has also worked for westinghouse broadcasting corp., between 1969 and 1974, covering events in both hong kong and saigon. he has an mba from harvard business school
upi was formed in june 1907 by the e.w. scripps co., which sold the wire service in 1982 to media news corp. the company filed for protection from creditors in april 1985, more than a year before it was bought by vazquez rana
a federal judge on monday dismissed a lawsuit challenging the constitutionality of new sentencing guidelines, ruling that two public defender offices lacked legal standing to bring the case
the decision by u.s. district judge stanley sporkin dismissed the case on technical grounds. it came four days after two federal judges in california had held the new sentencing guidelines were unconstitutional
the two judges in san diego ruled that the 1984 law establishing the u.s. sentencing commission was unconstitutional because it improperly placed the panel in the judicial instead of the executive branch in violation of the constitution's separation-of-powers doctrine
unlike the california cases, the suit before sporkin did not involve defendants who faced sentencing under the new guidelines, which provide a complicated set of factors for determining the length of a defendant's incarceration
sporkin found that federal public defenders' offices in san diego and nashville lacked legal standing to sue because they couldn't show they were harmed by the new sentencing guidelines
permitting lawyers to sue without clients, or at best, with only potential clients, merely because their putatative clients allegedly will be harmed, would open the same door for specialist lawyers to sue whenever congress enacts a statute which impacts on their clientele,'' sporkin said
the harm alleged by plaintiffs... essentially boils down to their perception that their workload will be more complex and will markedly increase,'' sporkin said
that sort of `harm' or `injury' is no different from the `harm' that the passage of the tax reform act of 1986 caused for tax laywers, or for that matter than the `harm' caused for criminal lawyers by the passage of the bail reform and speedy trial acts,'' the judge said. report that kidnappers caught. pick up 7th graf pvs: higgins is commander...</note>
the kidnappers of a u.s. marine officer released a videotape monday in which he recited their demands, including withdrawal by israel from its border ``security zone'' in south lebanon
lt. col. william r. higgins, who appeared to be reading from a text written by his captors, said president reagan ``has to take responsibility for the crimes he has committed against the oppressed people in the region.''
higgins was abducted last wednesday on a highway south of tyre, the ancient port 50 miles south of beirut
a group calling itself the organization of the oppressed on earth, which claimed responsibility for the abduction, released the 70-second tape
the kidnapping increased friction between two shiite moslem forces vying for domination in south lebanon: the moderate amal militia, which is trying to rescue higgins, and hezbollah, or party of god, which is loyal to iran and is believed to be an umbrella for groups holding most of the 25 foreigners missing in lebanon
amal militiamen and troops of the u.n. peacekeeping force in south lebanon, using dogs, searched the caves and groves of the tyre area for the sixth day monday
nbc nightly news reported ``important progress in the search.'' in a report from southern lebanon it said sources there told nbc news the three gunmen who kidnapped higgins and three other gunmen who were in the getaway car have been caught
it said the six are being interrogated by amal officers
higgins is commander of the 76-man observer group-lebanon attached to the u.n. interim force in lebanon, or unifil, the south lebanon peacekeeping force
hezbollah claimed the 43-year-old marine from danville, ky., was removed from the area despite a dragnet by amal and u.n. security officers. release of the tape, delivered to a western news agency in beirut, suggested the abductors were able to get higgins out
it is hard to believe that a videotape can be produced if the captive is held in a dangerous hideout,'' said an independent, informed shiite source, who spoke on condition of anonymity
amal, which supports the u.n. presence in predominantly shiite south lebanon, views higgins' abduction as a hezbollah challenge. security sources in tyre said amal had closed the iranian cultural center and iranian revolutionary guards offices in the city
hezbollah declared full support for the kidnappers and denounced amal's ``enthusiam to determine the fate of a filthy american spy.''
nine americans, including higgins, are among the 25 foreigners missing in lebanon. the hostage held longest is terry a. anderson, chief middle east correspondent of the associated press, kidnapped march 16, 1985
many of his taped remarks were in poor english, indicating he did not write the message. his face was close to the camera, obscuring any background that might have indicated the location
he appeared physically fit, was unshaven and wore the same dark green sweater as when kidnappers stopped his car on the coastal highway
a typewritten statement in arabic that accompanied the tape renewed the charge that higgins was a cia agent using the u.n. job as a cover
washington has denied this
white house spokesman marlin fitzwater said monday the videotape ``obviously ... was made under duress.''
to begin the statement, the kidnapped marine said:
i, william higgins, in order to get me released, these demands have to be met.''
he recited the same conditions his captors set forth in a statement on friday claiming responsibility for the abduction:
_withdrawal of israeli forces from the zone they maintain just north of the frontier as a buffer against cross-border guerrilla raids
_release of all lebanese and palestinian guerrillas from the khiam prison and ``all other prisons inside the zionist regime in occupied palestine.'' israel holds about 300 lebanese and palestinians at khiam in the security zone
_an end to u.s. intervention in lebanon and to middle east missions by american emissaries
while giving the last condition, higgins said the aim of u.s. missions to the middle east was to ``surround the gains of the islamic revolution in occupied palestine.''
that suggested the kidnappers wanted secretary of state george p. shultz to cancel a scheduled trip this week in which he is to visit jordan, egypt and israel, and may go to syria and saudi arabia
shultz was in moscow on monday, where the middle east situation was figuring in his talks
unifil spokesman timur goksel has said 20 officers of higgings' group were withdrawn from three border posts after his abduction to the force's headquarters in naqoura, a lebanese town just north of the israeli border
the u.n. relief and works agency evacuated its last five foreign employees from moslem west beirut to the christian eastern sector monday because of the kidnappings feb. 5 of employees jan stening, 44, of sweden and william jorgensen, 58, of norway
japan is asking the united states to reconsider its charges that a japanese ``scientific research'' whaling expedition in the antarctic is undermining international agreements, the japanese embassy said monday
ambassador nobuo matsunaga sent secretary of state george shultz a letter accusing the united states of taking ``unilateral action'' and ``unjustifiable measures'' in the whaling dispute, an embassy statement said
it referred to a feb. 10 commerce department declaration that japan's killing of minke whales in the antarctic violated international whaling agreements. the declaration means that president reagan by april can order a 50 percent cut in the japanese fishing quota in u.s. economic territorial waters and exclude japanese fish and fish products from u.s. markets
the current japanese fishing quota in the 200-mile offshore u.s. economic zone is zero but the declaration could be applied to future years as well as apply to sales of processed fish
matsunaga's letter restated the japanese government position that the current antarctic expedition is for non-commercial research ``provided for in the international whaling commission convention.'' the united states and japan agreed in 1984 that japan would cease commercial whaling in 1987
critics say that proposed harvest of hundreds of minke whales is excessive for research, that the commission has not specifically authorized the current expedition and that the stated research into whale population, diet and nutrition could be carried out without killing the whales
the embassy said matsunaga in his letter, dated friday, ``strongly urged the u.s. to reconsider its position in light of the damage these moves would cause to mutually beneficial u.s.-japan fishery relations.'' rose sted rice, picking up 6th graf pvs, `as bakker...'.</note>
the saga of the television evangelists has come full circle with the disgrace of jimmy swaggart, who a year ago was the scourge of lust and greed among the ``pompadour boys'' in the religious broadcasting fraternity
the scandal strikes an electronic church which has already been measurably diminished by last year's controversies over jim bakker's adultery and high living and oral roberts' claim that god might ``take me home'' if he failed to raise $8 million by the end of march
my feeling is that there will be more damage, and the credibility of those of us in christian broadcasting will be hurt a little bit more. how much, i don't know,'' said jerry rose, president of national religious broadcasters
rose, of wcfc-tv in chicago, noted that swaggart had been a vigorous proponent of the nrb's efforts to improve financial accountability, as well as an emphatic preacher about sexual morality
a lot of people saw jimmy as a pacesetter for doing what needed to done in the church, so in this case it is shocking,'' rose said
as bakker resigned in shame a year ago, swaggart thundered: ``god deliver us from these pompadour boys, hair done, nails done, fresh from the beauty shop, preaching the gospel.''
even before swaggart's recent problems, the name-calling among these men of god and the jokes of late-night comedians had moved pat robertson, now a republican presidential contender, to say that he resented being identified as a ``television evangelist.''
swaggart _ by some measures, the biggest of them all _ stepped down from his pulpit sunday after confessing that he had sinned against god and his family. he didn't explain, but others reported that the louisiana evangelist had been photographed entering a motel room with a prostitute
we're the last surviving ministry, the last one,'' the rev. jerry falwell told students at his liberty university in lynchburg, va., on sunday. ``bakker is gone. robertson is gone ... running for president. swaggart is now gone. we're the last. the credibility crisis is unbelievable.''
with that crisis came hard times for the television ministry. falwell, swaggart and roberts all have lost part of their audience, and robertson laid off nearly 500 employees at his christian broadcasting network last summer and 145 more in november
cbn's contribution income dropped by 32.5 percent from april to october, said benton miller, the ministry's director of communications. not only did the ptl scandal hurt, miller said, but falling oil prices cut into the income of some supporters and the stock market dived in october
there was a real drought for a good bit of last year,'' said falwell's spokesman, mark demoss, who predicted monday that there may be little or no impact this time
part of that is due to the way jimmy swaggart has handled his admission of wrongdoing,'' demoss said. ``i think another reason for that is, thanks in great part to the media, the general public now has a better understanding of the difference between a charismatic and non-charismatic ministry and now is able to tell the difference from one ministry to another
i look at the example of a gary hart moral failure _ that did not ruin the democratic party or other democratic candidates, but it did ruin gary hart,'' demoss said
falwell, moral majority's founder, is an independent baptist and a fundamentalist. charismatics may share his biblical literalism, but they emphasize ``gifts of the spirit'' such as speaking in tongues and healing
bakker and swaggart were both ordained by the assemblies of god, a charismatic denomination
swaggart had a larger audience, 1,720,000 households per week last november, than any other video evangelist, according to the arbitron rating service. the a.c. nielsen co. put swaggart's audience at 860,000 households, second to robert schuller's 1,189,000, but nielsen said swaggart was seen on the most stations, 286
arbitron reported that swaggart's audience had been 2,161,000 households in february of last year, before the ptl and oral roberts controversies. between february and november last year, arbitron said, schuller's audience dropped from 1.7 million households to 1.4 million, roberts from 1.15 million to 900,000, and falwell's ``old time gospel hour'' from 616,000 to 495,000
those figures are for broadcast audience only; most programs reach additional viewers on cable television
the negative publicity started last year when roberts, who had built an evangelistic empire including a university and a hospital in tulsa, okla., announced that god might ``call me home'' if he did not raise $8 million by the end of march
bakker resigned march 19, 1987, after admitting a sexual encounter with a young woman later identified as jessica hahn. bakker said he had asked falwell to take over, but later claimed that falwell had stolen ptl
bakker and his top aide, the rev. richard dortch, were subsequently defrocked by the assemblies of god
the story popped up through the year. the bakkers feuded with falwell, who finally resigned in frustration in october. jessica hahn turned up in the pages of playboy, and in the mansion of hugh hefner
in december, the internal revenue service claimed that the bakkers had been paid $9.36 million in excessive compensation between 1981 and 1987
this month, ptl's new trustee, david clark, filed suit against the bakkers and former aide david taggart, seeking $52.8 million for mismanagement and unjustified compensation
bakker's 81-year-old parents, raleigh and furnia bakker, were laid off last week from their $500-a-month jobs as greeters at the heritage usa resort, where they have continued to live
this month, members of the national religious broadcasters adopted a financial code of ethics which will require public disclosure of annual, independent audits of all income and expenditures, except for salaries
port-au-prince, haiti (ap) _ the army chief of staff denied monday night that the commander of haiti's most repressive and powerful batallion is involved in cocaine trafficking
there has been no complaint or judicial file received implicating col. jean-claude paul, who has been singled out by the foreign press'' for denigration, read the communique signed by gen. carl nicolas and broadcast by the state-run radio nationale
paul is the target of a u.s. federal grand jury probe based on the testimony of oswaldo quintana, a u.s. drug enforcement agency informant who charged that paul uses his private airstrip and ranch outside port-au-prince to smuggle cocaine from columbia to florida
the army statement refuted the ``so-called involvement of (paul) in affairs of drug trafficking,'' and denounced the foreign press for its ``campaign of denigration'' against paul, who is in his late 40s
the statement also warned the local press not to repeat ``unfounded rumors'' of the foreign press
several opposition newspapers reported with banner headlines a news conference given by quintana in miami last week implicating paul as a cocaine smuggler
the communique stated that if the army high command has reason to believe that any army officer is guilty of misconduct, ``an investigating committee will be created, in accordance with the regulations of the armed forces of haiti.''
paul's unit, the widely feared dessalines barracks, is responsible for virtually all army repression and killings of demonstrators in 1987. soldiers from the 700-man batallion were also seen in the streets during the violently-aborted nov. 29 elections, apparerently protecting gunmen who shot or hacked to death at least 34 voters
the former parish priest of an irish nationalist who was shot dead from an army observation tower said monday that police and soldiers harrassed the victim for several years
british officials said they have launched an investigation into the incident sunday in northern ireland near the irish border. but in dublin, the irish government announced it will hold its own probe headed by the deputy irish police chief
mcanespie's death came at a time of severe strain in anglo-irish relations over other incidents involving the police and the province's catholic minority
the rev. brendan mchugh said aidan mcanespie had to cross the irish border daily to go to work and was constantly harassed at the army checkpoint
we complained time out of number to the police and military, but no action was ever taken. life for the poor man had just become unbearable,'' he told reporters
the army said it ``deeply regrets'' the shooting. it said 23-year-old mcanespie was hit by a bullet fired from an army observation post about half a mile from the irish border in county tyrone
police said the soldier involved was in military custody while an investigation was launched. no details about the soldier were given. police declined to comment on the priest's allegations of harassment
press association, the british domestic news agency, said security sources reported that the soldier involved told detectives a machine gun was accidentally discharged as he handed it to another soldier
the agency also quoted unidentified sources as saying three strike marks were found on the roadway near the victim, indicating three shots might have been fired
mcanespie's brother-in-law, paul mccabe, said of the investigation announced by the dublin government: ``we welcome any attempt to bring the murderer of aidan to real justice and ensure that there is not yet another cover-up
maybe at this late stage the irish government will finally recognize the reality of families like ourselves having to put up with constant harassment. ... in the light of recent developments of incidents here (in northern ireland) i do not think anyone would be prepared to give evidence to the ruc.''
the ruc _ royal ulster constabulary _ is northern ireland's police force. its policemen are frequent targets of irish republican army gunmen and bombers. allegations that the ruc tried to thwart an investigation into the slaying of six unarmed catholics by an ruc unit in 1982 has intensified the deep hostility among many catholics toward the force
the outlawed ira is fighting to end british rule in protestant-dominated northern ireland and unite the province with the irish republic, which is predominantly roman catholic
relatives said mcanespie was walking to a regular weekly gaelic football game in the northern ireland village of aughnacloy, county tyrone, when he was shot. he had passed through the checkpoint, which lies on the route to the football ground
francis molloy, a local councilman, said mcanespie was an election worker for sinn fein, political arm of the ira. the ira denied mcanespie was among their members
mchugh said mcanespie was never involved in paramilitary activity but was harassed nevertheless
he was never abused physically, just verbally, and his car was often taken apart,'' mchugh said, referring to vehicle searches. ``i don't know why he was singled out for such treatment.''
the campaign against him must have been going on for at least five years. other young lads were also stopped, but aidan appeared to be getting special treatment,'' he said
last month britain provoked irish outrage by saying it will not prosecute policemen accused of perverting the course of justice in the aftermath of the killing of six unarmed catholics in three incidents in late 1982
the strain was compounded by a british appeals court's refusal to overturn the conviction of six irishmen accused of perpetrating twin bombings that killed 21 people in 1974. many irish officials and civilians believe the six are victims of a miscarriage of justice
republican presidential hopeful pat robertson said monday that ``somebody planned'' the eruption of a scandal involving television evangelist jimmy swaggart two weeks before the super tuesday primaries. but he wouldn't say who he was talking about
nothing happens to people by accident,'' robertson, a former television evangelist, said in an interview monday with the anderson, s.c., independent-mail. ``it is kind of funny this came up two weeks before the most important primaries in the nation. people probably wonder what went on.''
swaggart temporarily stepped down from the pulpit of his 7,500-member church in baton rouge, la., on sunday amid allegations of sexual misconduct
i think somebody had something to do with it,'' said robertson. ``somebody else planned all these things, i am afraid.''
robertson declined to say who he was referring to, but said the ``political efforts'' will have little effect on his campaign because his supporters back him too strongly
it (the scandal) will not affect me because it has nothing whatsoever to do with me,'' he told the newspaper. ``but i want to tell people to ask (vice president) george bush what he thinks about all this.''
earlier monday, robertson had said the troubles swaggart is having are ``unfortunate,'' but that he didn't think the controversy would have any effect on his campaign
it will have no more effect on me than gary hart had on robert dole,'' he said. hart dropped out of the democratic presidential race in may amid reports of his relationship with a miami model, then rejoined the field in december
in the interview with the anderson newspaper, robertson accused the bush campaign of ``dirty politics'' and ``trickery'' directed at his campaign, but offered no proof of such activity
i have been told of bush's dirty tricks and i expect to see them in south carolina,'' he said. ``his campaign will use every kind of dirty trick against me because this state is important and i have a lot of support and george bush knows that.''
bush campaign officials were not immediately available to respond to robertson's comments
also on monday, robertson called for a return to teaching methods used 40 years ago, when children could still pray in public schools
back then, ``we maybe didn't have some of the fancy buildings and we weren't spending $270 billion a year on education, but little children could pray in the public schools of america and we've got to see that once again,'' he said to applause from a group of about 800 people at lander college
robertson said in recent math tests, american students performed just above students in swaziland. ``twenty-five percent of the students in one test couldn't even locate the united states of america on a map. how can you defend a country when you don't even know where it is?''
he said american education should once again stress the basics such as the multiplication tables, science, geography and american history
an amtrak switchman who fled his post after a derailment injured 25 passengers last month has tested positive for marijuana and at least one other drug, officials familiar with the tests said monday night
however, one of the officials, speaking on condition of anonymity, said authorities had not determined whether a link existed between the jan. 29 accident and the results of the tests on thomas connor, 30, of aldan, pa
he said the laboratory that performed the tests has been asked to clarify the analysis, and the correlation remained ``an open issue.'' he said he could not identify any other drugs that had been found
connor was the control tower operator on duty when the train slammed into a work vehicle in chester, pa., near philadelphia. he fled his post after realizing he had failed to take the train off a stretch of track undergoing maintenance
connor did not submit to blood or urine tests until more than 72 hours after the accident. marijuana can remain in the system for up to 30 days
connor's lawyer, arthur donato of suburban philadelphia, said he had not been notified of the results
i don't believe it,'' donato said, referring to the sources' report
john jacobsen, an amtrak spokesman, said the railroad also had not been informed of the results
the nbc nightly news reported monday night that sources had found connor tested positive for high amounts of marijuana, cocaine and a third unidentified drug
bill loftus, spokesman of the federal railroad administration, said he could neither comfirm nor deny any reports about the drug tests, pending notification to connor and amtrak
loftus did confirm that the results had been received and said the railroad administration expected to issue a report on tuesday. he said the findings were ``not simple.''
connor was suspended without pay by amtrak, then resigned last week, citing ``physical and emotional stress.''
calls to connor's home were not answered monday night. news digest: beirut, lebanon _ beirut-kidnap, a0498; atlanta _ another look: death row retarded, a0418; washington _ pesticides, a0442; undated _ robertson's prospects, a0454; minneapolis, minn. _ political rdp, a0459; washington _ the destiny issue, a0457; peoria, ill. _ fbi -dismissal, a0432; lampung, indonesia _elephant school, a0419.</note>
the israeli army, which shot and killed two more arabs in the west bank, said secretary of state george p. shultz's visit this week could lead to an escalation of violence in the occupied territories
in another development, a u.s. official, speaking sunday on condition of anonymity, said an american envoy has discussed the shultz visit with local palestinians. according to arab and other american sources, watt cluvarius, a deputy to assistant secretary of state richard murphy, met saturday with a group of about 10 palestinians from the occupied west bank and gaza strip
the palestine liberation organization on friday ordered palestinians from the occupied lands not to talk to shultz. but dr. yasser obeid, one of those who met with cluvarius, said the participants hoped plo chief yasser arafat would change his mind and allow such discussions
church leaders left the door open for evangelist jimmy swaggart to resume his tv ministry after he delivered a tearful confession of sin and stepped down from the pulpit
i think he is a man of integrity. i think he made a mistake. i don't think it's a fatal mistake,'' cecil janway, district superintendent of the 2 million-member assemblies of god, said late sunday
swaggart did not describe his misconduct sunday in his confession, which drew gasps and tears from his congregation. an overflow crowd packed his 7,500-seat family worship center after reports that church officials had been given photographs purporting to show swaggart and a known prostitute going into and out of a motel room
senate agriculture committee chairman patrick j. leahy is set to raise the curtain on hearings into the problem of hunger plaguing the nation's homeless and families living in poverty
i know that the budget pressures will remain with us all this year and for the foreseeable future,'' the vermont democrat says. ``but america's future depends on its children. the wealthiest, most powerful nation in the world must once again resolve to eliminate hunger in america.''
the hearings come as the government prepares to suspend distribution of milk, cheese, rice and honey to low-income households under the temporary emergency food assistance program, or tefap, because stocks are depleted
panama has spent hundreds of thousands of dollars since 1985 hiring american lobbyists to champion the country's cause in congress and improve its image in the united states, records show
among those who have registered as agents of panama are stuart spencer, a long-time political adviser to president reagan; m.b. oglesby jr., former white house assistant for legislative affairs; francis gomez, an executive with ties to lt. col. oliver north's network, and jamie whitten jr., the son of rep. jamie whitten, d-miss
the documents are filed at the justice department in compliance with the foreign agents registration act. the law requires foreign agents to report their activities every six months
the new pentagon budget has reopened the bitter fight between congress and the reagan administration over the mx nuclear missile and how to build america's future arsenal of land-based atomic weapons
and in the latest round _ on a possible successor to the mx missile _ past administration critics have gained grudging support from an unusual quarter _ defense secretary frank carlucci
although he personally doesn't think much of the midgetman missile, the congressionally designated heir apparent to the mx, carlucci has agreed to request enough funding to keep the project alive until a new administration can make the final decision
democrat richard gephardt, who has made ``it's your fight too'' his populist rally cry, has chosen this state as a staging ground for a bid to block michael dukakis from sweeping the handful of states holding presidential primaries or caucuses before super tuesday
south dakota, and to a lesser extent wyoming, are the states chosen by the gephardt campaign for an intensive effort even as the three-week campaign for the south and its rich pool of delegates has already begun
according to the calendar and the democratic party's nomination rules, south dakota might not appear a major battleground. its primary was set for tuesday, earlier than national democratic officials wanted it, only after agreement was reached that means the state's nominating delegates won't be selected until later and won't be bound by the primary outcome
premier jacques chirac, long mired in third place in opinion polls, has seen his presidential campaign take off, giving him an edge over rival conservative raymond barre with two months left before the vote
the first round of the election, april 24, has become in effect a primary election between chirac and barre. unless there is a stunning turnaround, one of the two will oppose a socialist, probably incumbent president francois mitterrand, in the decisive may 8 runoff for a seven-year term
mitterrand has long had a solid lead in all published opinion surveys, while chirac trailed barre thoughout last year. a poll published jan. 16, the day chirac declared his candidacy, gave mitterrand 41 percent to 25 percent for barre and 18.5 percent for chirac
but surveys published in the past two weeks have shown chirac pushing ahead. friday's edition of the magazine paris-match, for exampale, reported 23 percent of those questioned planning to vote for chirac, to 19 percent for barre. mitterrand, who says he will wait until mid-march to disclose his plans, remained far ahead with 36 percent. news digest: moscow _ shultz; beirut, lebanon _ lebanon-kidnap; ramallah, occupied west bank _ israel-violence; wash _ meese-pipeline; alexandria, la. _ swaggart; undated _ political rdp</note>

navy secretary james h. webb abruptly resigned monday, accusing defense secretary frank c. carlucci of abandoning the reagan administration's goal of a 600-ship navy and of demonstrating a lack of leadership and vision
this building needs to be led,'' webb said in telling reporters of his decision. ``it needs leadership. it needs some vision. i'm saying that if i had a piece of advice to give to secretary carlucci, it would be to spend a lot more time with the top leaders in this building
he's been spending a lot of time with the state department and a lot of time on the hill. i think they (pentagon leaders) need to feel his vision and to understand what he believes in.''
webb, 42, a highly decorated marine veteran of vietnam combat and the author of the best-selling vietnam war novel, ``fields of fire,'' left after only 10 months in his pentagon position
cafe owner yosef weizman said when israeli police beat up his arab workers three days ago, he understood the depth of distrust between jews and arabs after months of clashes in the occupied territories
eli ben-simon, 38, had learned the lesson a few days earlier. ben-simon, a jew, was beaten up in an industrial area near tel aviv because, he said, his israeli attackers thought he was an arab
growing numbers of palestinians who work in and around this coastal city of 1.5 million people are subject to harassment, primarily by israelis made suspicious by the unprecedented fury and violence of arabs opposing israel's 20-year occupation in the west bank and gaza strip
palestinian moderates have sought permission from the plo to meet with u.s. secretary of state george p. shultz when he arrives this week to launch a new american peace initiative, arab leaders said monday
but hanna siniora, who reportedly solicited plo chief yasser arafat's approval for a meeting, said the prospects were dim because the palestine liberation organization doesn't want a palestinian delegation to meet with shultz in israel
the plo is willing to have a meeting with shultz but outside israel,'' siniora, editor of the palestinian daily al-fajr, said on his return monday
the supreme court dealt a blow to religious fundamentalists monday when it killed a challenge to the required use of ``godless'' textbooks in tennessee public schools
ending one of the most widely publicized freedom-of-religion cases in recent years, the justices, without a recorded dissenting vote, rejected an appeal by seven families
today's action left intact a federal appeals court ruling that said it was constitutional to require fundamentalist christian children to read the objected-to books
the saga of the television evangelists has come full circle with the disgrace of jimmy swaggart, who a year ago was the scourge of lust and greed among the ``pompadour boys'' in the religious broadcasting fraternity
the scandal strikes an electronic church which has already been measurably diminished by last year's controversies over jim bakker's adultery and high living and oral roberts' claim that god might ``take me home'' if he failed to raise $8 million by the end of march
god deliver us from these pompadour boys, hair done, nails done, fresh from the beauty shop, preaching the gospel,'' swaggart thundered a year ago
president reagan cautioned the nation's governors monday against pressing for costly federal solutions to the problems of welfare and child care
his remarks to the national governors' association were labeled a disappointment by massachusetts gov. michael dukakis, a democratic presidential hopeful, who said reagan should be backing the governors' bipartisan welfare reform bill in the senate
reagan instead said he still strongly supports a less costly republican alternative that the house rejected two months ago
he also cautioned the governors to go slow on the issue of child care, where both democrats and republicans in congress are proposing to expand federal support and subsidies for working parents
former tv evangelist pat robertson took out $5.5 million in loans last month as the presidential contenders headed to the cash-draining super tuesday primaries, and george bush remained by far the richest candidate with more than $9 million in the bank
among democratic hopefuls, money leader michael dukakis had a $4 million bankroll, his financial statement shows
robertson reported $5.5 million in loans and contributions of $1.3 million during january, in addition to the $6.5 million he got in federal matching funds. robertson had earlier said he might not use the matching funds because he was philosophically opposed to the public financing system
the turban of darshan singh, a 12-year-old sikh, was half burned from the heat of the mud oven where he hid to escape death
but the killers _ sikhs themselves _ yanked him out, and he died in a burst of gunfire. the boy, his elder brother and their father all died in the courtyard of the village of fattu bheela, home of 2,000 sikhs
it was one more case of sikhs killing sikhs. never before in the radicals' six-year campaign for an independent homeland have the killers turned their guns so relentlessly on people of their own minority faith
world chess champion gary kasparov charmed a bronx gymnasium full of schoolchildren monday and then promptly beat the pawns off more than 50 of them at once
it's like playing larry bird or michael jordan one-on-one,'' explained 14-year-old k.k. karanja of manhattan, who along with one other youth played the champion to a draw. the remaining 57 lost
a beaming kasparov, on a visit to the united states, was greeted at the garrett morgan community elementary school by a mob of reporters, photographers, school and city officials and starstruck student chess buffs
nothing sends albert paul blaustein into a lather like being called odd just because he has 1,400 bars of soap in his basement
that's 1,400 catalogued bars from every hotel the 66-year-old constitutional law scholar has visited in the past 47 years
still, ``i'm not eccentric,'' blaustein said with good humor in a recent interview. ``i'd rather be remembered as a nice guy who did good things for the world.''
move over maybellene. roll over beethoven. berlin is hail, hail, hailing rock 'n' roll legend chuck berry
the critically-acclaimed movie, ``chuck berry: hail! hail! rock 'n' roll,'' led the pack of american films forming the centerpiece of this year's berlin film festival
and berry, the father of rock 'n' roll who inspired such musicians as elvis presley and the beatles, was the american star feted first at this year's event, europe's no. 2 annual cinema extravaganza after the more prestigious cannes film festival
berry was presented with a life achievement award at the west german premier of ``hail! hail! rock 'n' roll,'' the movie directed by taylor hackford (``white nights,'' ``an officer and a gentleman'') that made its american debut at the new york film festival in the fall
the berlinale camera award, a gold replica of a camera, was presented to berry at the premiere by voker hassemer, west berlin's senator for cultural affairs
i don't consider myself a legend,'' the 62-year-old berry said. ``i always thought a legend was a dead person who is praised.''
the st. louis-born berry wrote such hard-hitting, foot stomping songs as ``maybellene,'' ``sweet little sixteen,'' ``school day,'' ``hail! hail! rock 'n' roll,'' ``roll over beethoven'' and ``rock 'n' roll music.''
the movie, a two-hour biographical concert show, is the sixth film in which the rock star has appeared. it features berry's daughter, ingrid, as a back-up singer, blues singer etta james and pop star linda ronstadt. rolling stones guitarist keith richards, the film's musical producer, also makes an appearance
berry is known for his stage showmanship, from the skillfull handling of the guitar to his flashy dance improvisations. it is this stage savvy that sets him apart from other performers, he says
there's a special sense that i think i have as a performer,'' he said. ``i know when i have to change the pace, when i see the audience looking tired.''
but age has forced him to change his performance over the years, he says
as you get older and older, you find out what's better to do'' he said. ``over the last 10 years the dancing in my shows has diminished, but the presence has developed.''
berry was a hit with both older and younger fans in berlin. he was mobbed by throngs of fans and autograph seekers upon arriving at the city's tegel airport, and a sold-out crowd gathered to see him perform at the ``metropole,'' one of the city's hottest night spots
but the singer says he's had enough fame
i don't care for any more fame than i had a few years ago,'' said berry, who cut a lean, lithe figure in his light blue vest and string tie. ``i don't think i really deserve it.''
berry said he owes his skills as a lyricist to his early exposure to poetry
i grew up with poetry'' he said. ``from the time i was 8 years old, i'd be learning different poems. it was a family thing. my older sisters and i would have contests to see who could tell the best poems.''
in recent years the berlin film festival has favored splashy, hollywood-style productions after years of honoring art-oriented works of little commercial draw. this year's offerings included ``broadcast news,'' ``wall street,'' ``walker'' and ``moonstruck.''
some 750 short and feature-length films from more than 100 nations were shown during the 11-day festival, which ended feb. 23. woody allen's ``september'' kicked off the festival
if loyal fans of abc's ``moonlighting'' are gluttons for punishment, that may be an asset for watching the show this season
not within memory have television viewers had to put up with so much and gotten so little
moonlighting'' is the most disappointing show this season, and for those who loved the show it is a terrible thing to see it self-destruct right on the screen
what made this show go, what gave it its charm and appeal, were the scenes between cybill shepherd as maddie hayes and bruce willis as david addison. these two opposites, irresistibly drawn to each other in a love-hate relationship, made the screen sparkle with their witty repartee
but shepherd's pregnancy caused a dilemma for the show's producers. instead of shooting around it, as most series do, they made it a part of the story. allyce beasley, who plays miss dipesto, was also pregnant, but on the show she ignored it. besides, with her layered look, it was hard to tell
it might have seemed a smart move at the time to incorporate shepherd's pregnancy into the story. but it has turned into labor for the viewers
maddie, telling no one she was pregnant, went off to chicago to brood with her parents. david was left to deal with her absence
moonlighting'' was left to slowly twist in the wind
it was embarrassing watching the show deal with her absence. it squirmed and made up stories like someone caught in a lie. the whole point of watching ``moonlighting'' was to see those two carry on like spencer tracy and katharine hepburn in ``woman of the year.'' the cases they solved were merely an excuse to get them together so they could disagree
and when shepherd and willis finally got back together, it wasn't any better. forget the witty dialogue. ``moonlighting'' turned into ``days of whine and roses.''
although shepherd had twins, maddie is still pregnant. she told david the baby's not his
but the clincher was when she announced she had married a stranger _ a whole new character, dennis dugan as a businessman she met on the train from chicago _ on impulse. maddie, married on impulse? maddie, the woman who wouldn't cross the street on impulse? david is standing there with egg on his face, trying to grin through it. what a low blow. what a letdown for the audience
where is the famous ``dallas'' shower when we need it? tell us the season was only a dream and not a nightmare
maddie and david have become an unfunny, bickering couple who have overstayed their welcome. it was nice while it lasted, but the magic is gone
meanwhile, abc has removed another show from its schedule. ``sledge hammer!'' a spoof on all those macho detectives, started out in the nielsen cellar and never got out. the show deserved better
it made its debut in september 1986 against cbs' ``dallas'' and nbc's ``miami vice.'' after that introduction to obscurity, abc transferred the show to 8 o'clock thursday, where it went up against nbc's ``the cosby show.'' there it stayed until it was moved again, back to friday against ``dallas'' and ``miami vice.''
david rasche stars as the title character, a one-man anti-crime crusade, whose idea of crime prevention is shooting a jaywalker. the show has parodied such movies as ``vertigo,'' ``play it again, sam,'' ``a clockwork orange,'' ``dressed to kill'' and ``robocop.''
it's a funny show, although its brand of satire may be difficult for some people to understand. but the main reason the show never gained an audience was its time period. it has never had a chance
abc says it will bring the show back later. it deserves a chance to be seen by a wider audience and not merely to be brought back in another bad time slot to play out its commitment
elsewhere in television:
our hospital _ ed flanders is returning as dr. westphall for an episode on nbc's ``st. elsewhere'' inspired by ``our town.'' the craigs, dr. novino and lizzie westphall go to the quaint new hampshire village where dr. westphall is living so he can provide insightful, third-person commentary. the episode will be telecast on wednesday, march 2. ..
smile _ an all-new ``candid camera'' will return to the air next fall as a syndicated series from blair entertainment. allen funt, who has guided the show the past 40 years, will be co-host with john mulrooney. meanwhile, the special ``candid camera: the first 40 years,'' will be rerun by cbs on tuesday, march 1
it isn't easy to make a rhinoceros look noble, tragic, even charming, but producer-writer philip cayford does just that in his stunning national geographic special, ``the rhino war.''
that was part of what i was trying to do, tried to make them look attractive, tried to make them look cuddly, because they're not very cuddly and attractive, and they're not very appealable, but they can be,'' said cayford, a british filmmaker and conservationist, during a recent visit to new york
the one-hour documentary, shot in kenya and zimbabwe last year, airs sunday on superstation tbs. it is narrated by richard kiley and features music by ladysmith black mombazo
cayford has serious reasons for doing rhino pr. of the more than 30 species of rhinoceros that once existed on the african continent, only five remain, and all are endangered, especially the black rhino. in the early 1970s, there were 65,000 rhinos in africa. now there are 4,500
says a park ranger in zimbabwe, ``you do not want to show to your children one day how an elephant or a rhino look in a storybook.''
ironically,'' notes cayford in the film's narration, ``the very feature that evolved for the animal's defense may bring about its extinction.''
poachers are killing rhinos for the horn. a rhino's horn is caratin, like a human fingernail. the easiest way to remove it is to kill the animal
contrary to popular belief, rhino horn powder is not primarily sought as an aphrodisiac, but rather in the far east as a supposed fever reducer
more recently, however, conservationists uncovered an alarming new market for much of the rhino horn _ north yemen, where rhino-horn dagger handles are symbols of virility that command up to $15,000. in the oil-rich country, there is plenty of money for such extravangances
in africa, the battle to save the rhino has in fact become a war, complete with soldiers, helicopters, guns and death. the enemies, notes cayford, are ``greed, corruption and ignorance.''
in zimbabwe, where armed poachers moved after virtually wiping out the rhinos in eastern africa, the government has given park rangers authority to shoot to kill poachers. cayford's cameras capture the rangers' exhilaration after a violent confrontation. a dead poacher is juxtaposed with grim eloquence against the carcass of a rhino
since 1985, more than 30 poachers have died. so have 330 rhinos. the rangers say they don't like to kill humans to save animals, but feel the decision is a moral one. the poachers are on the short end of the economic stick. they risk their lives for a few hundred dollars. the middlemen who smuggle the horns out of africa make thousands
cayford says that despite their frightening appearance, rhinos are peaceful beings. nevertheless, the filmmakers are seen rapidly retreating when one trots toward them
cayford knows humans can't resist baby animals, even rhinos. one baby who was savaged by lions is seen on a preserve for orphaned and injured animals, trotting about with his loyal new friend, a spritely sheep
he was sweet,'' said cayford. ``i saw him a couple of months ago, and he's doing fine.''
for conservationists, it is an uphill battle to convince africans who are struggling to develop their countries that saving wildlife should be a priority. africans themselves are beginning to take up the cause. michael werikhe of kenya walks across his country promoting wildlife conservation. ``it's time wildlife awareness was taken to the people,'' he says. ``it's them who have the final say.''
there is concern, sure there's concern,'' cayford said. ``it just takes time. at the time people were wiping out the bison, nobody cared very much
what you have to do is come to the country understanding the country's problems, and helping rather than preaching,'' he said. ``you show them how wildlife has an economic value, that if you look after wildlife by doing this, this and this, it's going to bring you a natural benefit, that it's not something just to preserve for its own sake, which is a nice idea, but it only works when you can afford it.''
at the conclusion of the film, the camera pans from a rhino standing majestically on a ridge to the tall fence that he faces
if the rhino war is lost by the conservationists, the narration says, ``the rhino will be doomed to exist in a child's picture book of things that once were, but are no more.''
elsewhere in televsion:
powers plays markham _ stefanie powers will portray aviatrix beryl markham in a two-part, four-hour cbs miniseries ``a shadow on the sun,'' now in production in kenya. the cast also includes fredric forrest, claire bloom and john rubinstein. powers is no stranger to kenya. she oversees a wildlife preserve there named for the late actor william holden
open violence against dissidents is now rare in chile, but specialists contend that widespread human rights violations continue in more subtle ways and often are cloaked in apparent legality
the 14-year-old military government of president augusto pinochet, who also is the army commander, ``has modernized'' its repression methods, claims roberto garreton, chief lawyer for the vicariate of solidarity, the roman catholic church's human rights agency
garreton and other lawyers and human rights activists contend that the military regime has succeeded in politically neutralizing many dissidents by fear, making violent repression no longer necessary
speaking in interviews, they said that although torture is still common, the government has developed other, more subtle methods, including the continued enforcement of a nationwide state of emergency that empowers it to severely curtail basic civil rights
the government has also issued a number of specially tailored decrees and laws that give a formal legality to repression and ensure impunity to many human rights violators, the specialists maintain
as an example, they cited the widenening scope of military justice. during the last two years, 95 percent of those tried by military courts were civilians, according to alejandro hales, president of chile's bar association
hales said 90 percent of those tried were eventually freed without charges, but most of them were kept incommunicado for long periods, sometimes up to 40 days
the specialists contended that repression now often works through indimidation and threat, including the action of several shadowy, right-wing extremist groups that kidnap, beat up and occasionally even kill people. authorities deny any connection with such groups and have promised to investigate
nearly 200 chileans claim to have received death threats in recent months from the extremist groups, including some well known dissidents, and many have been briefly kidnapped and physically abused
one group, the september 11 commando, took responsibility for the killing of five leftists the day after a bloody but unsuccsessful attempt to kill pinochet in 1986. five young communists have been missing since september, and a group called chilean anti-communist action claimed responsibility feb. 15 for their abduction and disappearance
these methods ``have an extremely paralyzing and brutally frightening effect on most people,'' said garreton
lawyers and human rights activists, including hales and garreton, said they are convinced that those groups are ``centralized'' and connected to official security services
jaime troncoso, research director of the independent chilean human rights commission, said ``threatening is the new tactic for repression.''
the critics point out that, although most cases remain unsolved, every time a member of one of those groups was discovered, he proved to be a member of the military or the security services. an army lieutenant, patricio contreras, was killed three years ago by a bomb he was planting at a church in the southern city of punta arenas. a number of leaflets of the chilean anti-communist action group were found at the site
fernando volio, a costa rican who is the united nations' officially designated human rights inspector for chile, has denounced the existence of the extremist groups. unless they are dismantled, he said, ``this society will remain torn apart.''
in the years after pinochet and the military seized power in a bloody 1973 coup, hundreds of leftist dissidents were killed, and at least 683 cases of political prisoners who disappeared have been documented by local and foreign human rights groups. the torture of prisoners was considered widespread
summary executions have long since ceased and arbitrary arrests have decreased sharply
according to figures gathered by the chilean human rights commission, 33,903 people were arbitrarily arrested in 1986, while the figure went down to 6,255 in 1987
the commission registered 106 cases of torture of dissidents in 1987, compared to 290 a year earlier
the commission's troncoso stressed in an interview that ``we have never had a single report proved unfounded. we are extremely rigorous. there are many claims we do not publish for lack of evidence.''
since the 1973 coup, the u.n. human rights commission regularly has issued reports that are highly critical of the chilean government. the u.s. state department has also been critical of chile in its annual country-by-country report submitted to congress
this year's reports by the u.n. and the state department, while still critical, noted an improvement in the general situation of human rights here. but the u.s. report mentioned continued torture of prisoners
the government rejected the reports. an official statement said the u.s. report ``reflects only a partial picture of reality, ... has errors and mentions some facts that have not been proved.''
carlos varas, secretary of a government-appointed human rights commission, said the u.s. report shows ``a lack of knowledge of the chilean situation.''
the government also complains that its critics fail to refer to terrorism by leftist guerrilla groups when discussing the human rights situation
human rights activists criticize government legislation they contend is tailored to curb dissent. they cite the 1980 constitution, which outlaws ``totalitarian doctrines,'' such as marxism, and an amnesty law that they claim favors scores of human rights violators
they also cite the nationwide state of emergency and widened state of siege legislation that severely curtail civil rights and grant authorities wide powers to supress dissent, including the exile of dissidents, banning of public meetings, censorship of the mail and communications and restrictions of freedom of the press and of labor unions
france's system of education, admired worldwide f, time-proven methods, has become a source of concern in french homes, where it is increasinglyor its rigorous regarded as a misfit in the modern world
to its critics of the late 1980s, it is like a fine old car on a superhighway; it still works and still draws ``ahs'' but needs a tune-up, or an overhaul, to keep up with the traffic
the fundamental problems with french education is that it is an extremely selective system and leaves aside too large a proportion of youth who don't finish their studies,'' said olivier bertrand of the government-run center for the stuy 42 to 43 percent of french students finish high school and only about 22 to 23 percent go on to higher studies at a university or a prestigious ``grande ecole,'' according to bertrand
about 46 percent of french students receive what is known as ``professional formation'' for a specific trade, be it in a hospital or a bakery
we are conscious these levels are no longer adapted to the economic and social needs of today,'' said bertrand. ``if you compare it to countries like the united states or japan, we are far behind.''
the paris-based organization for economic cooperation and development, which seeks to promote economic and social development in its 19 member countries, agrees with the system's critics
the education system is geared toward helping the academically inclined. it is in fact a highly selective system which eliminates the weaker pupils at each different level and tends to brand them as losers,'' it said in a 1984 report on youth employment in france
the ``grandes ecoles'' perhaps represent the ultimate example of selection in the education system. since the 18th century, higher education in france has been dominated by the elite, specialized schools _ not universities _ which turn out the future leaders of government and industry
one of the ``grandes ecoles'' is the ecole nationale d'administration, whose graduates have a near-monopoly on top jobs in the government bureaucracy and figure prominently in politics
another is l'ecole polytechnique, run by the defense ministry, which turns out most of the nation's top engineers, many of whom become chief executives in state-owned or private industries
looking toward a more competitive continent when the european economic community's open border policy starts in 1992, france is scrutinizing its education system and finding it heading for, or already in, a state of crisis
students ill-prepared for the job market, a lack of funds, a top-heavy structure and an aging, diminishing university teaching corps are among other problems
a government-ordered report on university professors, released feb. 18, spoke of the ``vertiginous degradation'' of their lot, in pay, lack of work incentives and mediocre working conditions
for the student, the lot is determined in a process of selection, with the first at about age 13 based on performance in french and mathematics
universities present the opposite problem: any student with a baccalaureate from high school can enter. there is almost universal agreement that the 78 state-run universities need to be reformed, but successive governments have faced a student broadside in trying to do so
for the past 20 years, the university has been the sick man of france,'' said the newsweekly le point in a cover story on universities
while 80 percent of university graduates find jobs within 10 months of receiving diplomas, 70 percent of the jobs are either administrative or not in the graduate's field
even critics of the system say a student who passes the baccalaureat, the several-days-long exam at the end of high school, is better equipped academically than an american high school graduate
but, according to current thinking, the student is not necessarily better prepared to meet the requirements of the job market
it is generally charged that national education is lagging behind in comparison with the needs of companies,'' bertrand said
in the universities, teaching is mainly theory,'' said a 24-year-old doctoral student, laurence guillochet. ``when you leave, you have lots in your head but you don't know how to do anything.''
premier jacques chirac, a presidential candidate in spring elections, was confronted with the issue by an unemployed 24-year-old university graduate during a campaign stop in reims
french education, the premier told the woman, has trained too many people ``in abstract subjects for theoretical jobs.''
it's too general. it does not give the technical expertise our businesses demand. our enterprises need more and more people with technical knowledge.''
said bertand: ``the big idea now is `alternance,' going alternatively to school then a company for training, like in west germany, to get both theory and experience.''
they worshipped in village homes at night. they hid the symbols of their foreign faith inside buddhist altars and images. these were times when their discovery could mean torture or death
they were japanese who became christians after st. francis xavier visited japan in 1549-1551
today, japan's christians worship freely, but they cherish their secret past
some 13,000 of the nation's 1 million or so christians continue the tradition of secret worship, mostly on remote islands in southern japan. most are the elderly who do so out of habit rather than out of fear
and now artifacts of the secret-christian era, many collected by a woman who once worshipped secretly herself, soon will be displayed in a museum here in oiso
hundreds of thousands of japanese embraced christianity under jesuit and roman catholic leadership in the 16th century, when western influence was first felt in their isolated archipelago
the government banned what it regarded as a disruptive foreign religion after europeans were expelled from japan in 1639. in periodic persecutions, suspected christians were forced to recant, or be tortured, crucified or burned at the stake
but christians continued to worship privately for more than 200 years, and during that time, japanese christianity acquired a unique flavor
the hundreds of statues and scrolls already collected by the museum at oiso attest to the ambiguity of religion in japan, where adherents to various faiths have customarily mixed christian, buddhist and shinto rituals to mark the major turning points in their lives
as the christians originally concentrated in kyushu gradually spread throughout japan, they preserved symbols of their faith in hidden ways, said shigeru tai, the curator of the museum's collection
carpenters built crosses into buddhist temples,'' he said. ``they worshipped symbols of fish and family crests that were shaped like crosses, and other japanese didn't guess those were also christian symbols
in one temple, the walls were studded with cross-shaped windows, but the (buddhist) priests had no idea they were made by christians.''
the secret christians took advantage of this lack of awareness and of the close similarity of the christian madonna and the buddhist god of mercy. they painted on their breasts tiny gold crucifixes that apparently passed unnoticed
the back of one artifact, a statue of a japanese warrior-god brandishing a spear, opens to reveal an ivory and gold crucifix. other statues have false bottoms, with crosses and icons inside
tai, 71, was a close friend of miki sawada, the woman who collected the treasures and the granddaughter of the founder of the mitsubishi industrial empire
after her death in 1980, tai and others raised the funds for the museum, on the peaceful, forested grounds of the orphanage mrs. sawada founded in oiso, 35 miles southwest of tokyo
born into a strict buddhist family, she learned of christianity from a nurse when she was 8 years old and worshipped secretly until her 18th birthday, when she was allowed to attend a church service for the first time
she eventually married a christian and devoted her life and wealth to helping others, establishing the elizabeth saunders home for orphans. the orphanage was named after an impoverished british woman living in japan who contributed her life savings, $170, to help establish it
for 40 years, mrs. sawada visited communities where secret christians once lived, collecting their treasures, which are being housed in a tiny chapel before the museum's opening in april
these items are priceless,'' said tai, gingerly uncovering what looks like a metal plate but turns out to be a magic mirror. ``there is only one man in japan who can still make these mirrors.''
bright light reflected in the rather dull surface of the 16th century mirror casts the shadow of christ on the cross. to police seeking out christians at the time, the mirror was just a mirror, but for the secret worshipers, it was a precious symbol of their faith
the prohibition on christianity, enforced sporadically, was lifted when japan reopened its door to the west in 1854. under the militaristic governments during world war ii, however, christianity again became suspect
some secret christians willingly worshipped both buddhist and christian deity. others, forced to demonstrate their piety at temples and shrines, directed their prayers toward crosses etched secretly by other christians into woodwork or hidden behind buddhist altars
when japanese pray at shrines and temples, they usually clap twice. the christians would clap once again, the third clap a reminder of the holy trinity, tai said
during the war, when christianity was considered subversive, we used to clap the third clap very quietly,'' he said
christianity, however, has set down few roots in this syncretic nation, and today attracts less than 1 percent of japan's 121 million people
less than half the japanese people profess devotion to any faith, but japanese life is still dominated by buddhist and shinto rites, and most homes have buddhist altars for prayers to dead family members
the christians still living in remote villages in southern japan, who say prayers in an incomprehensible form of pidgin japanese, are continuing a tradition that is dying elsewhere, tai said
today is sunday, feb. 28, the 59th day of 1988. there are 307 days left in the year
today's highlight in history:
on feb. 28, 1854, about 50 opponents to slavery met at a schoolhouse in ripon, wis., to call for a new political group. the organization would later become known as the republican party
on this date:
in 1827, the first u.s. railroad chartered to carry passengers and freight, the baltimore and ohio railroad company, was incorporated
in 1844, secretary of state abel p. upshur, navy secretary thomas w. gilmer and several other people were killed when a 12-inch gun aboard the uss princeton exploded
in 1849, the ship california arrived at san francisco carrying the first of the gold-seekers
in 1861, the territory of colorado was organized
in 1917, the associated press reported the u.s. had intercepted a german communication. the ``zimmerman note'' proposed a german alliance with mexico and japan should the u.s. enter world war i
in 1951, the senate crime investigating committee headed by sen. estes kefauver, d-tenn., issued a preliminary report which said at least two major crime syndicates were operating in the united states
in 1966, astronauts elliot m. see jr. and charles a. bassett ii were killed when their training jet crashed into an aerospace plant in st. louis
in 1974, the united states and egypt re-established diplomatic relations after a seven-year break
in 1975, more than 40 people were killed in london when a subway train sped past its final stop and smashed into the end of a tunnel
in 1986, swedish prime minister olof palme was shot to death while walking from a movie theater in central stockholm with his wife, lisbeth
ten years ago: president jimmy carter asked congress for a record $12.9 billion federal budget for education
five years ago: the television comedy series ``mash'' came to an end after 11 seasons, with the broadcast of a special 2{-hour finale
one year ago: in a seeming shift of policy, soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev announced the kremlin was ready for a separate accord with the united states to rid europe of medium-range nuclear missiles
today's birthdays: actress molly picon is 90. nobel prize-winning chemist linus pauling is 87. actor charles durning is 65. svetlana alliluyeva, daughter of the late josef stalin, is 62. actor gavin macleod is 57. actor-director-dancer tommy tune is 49. auto racer mario andretti is 48. actor frank bonner is 46. former football player ``bubba'' smith is 43. actress bernadette peters is 40
thought for today: ``almost all men improve on acquaintance.'' _ andre maurois, french author (1885-1967)
today is monday, feb. 29, the 60th day of 1988. there are 306 days left in the year. today is leap day
today's highlight in history:
on feb. 29, 1940, the motion picture ``gone with the wind'' won eight oscars at the academy awards ceremony in los angeles. the honors included best picture of 1939, best director (victor fleming), best actress (vivien leigh) and best supporting actress (hattie mcdaniel, the first black performer so honored)
on this date:
in 1736, ann lee, founder of the shaker movement in america, was born in manchester, england
in 1792, composer gioacchino antonio rossini was born in pesaro, italy
in 1796, president george washington proclaimed jay's treaty, which settled some outstanding differences with great britain, to be in effect
in 1896, movie director william w. wellman was born in brookline, mass
in 1904, bandleader jimmy dorsey was born in shenandoah, penn
in 1904, president theodore roosevelt appointed a seven-member commission to facilitate completion of the panama canal
in 1936, president franklin d. roosevelt, in signing the second neutrality act, appealed to american businesses not to increase exports to belligerent nations
in 1956, in a nationally broadcast speech, president dwight d. eisenhower announced he would seek a second term in office
in 1960, the first playboy club, featuring waitresses clad in ``bunny'' outfits, opened in chicago. hugh hefner closed down the corporate-owned clubs in 1986, calling them ``passe.''
in 1968, the discovery of the first ``pulsar,'' a star which emits regular radio waves, was announced by dr. jocelyn bell burnell at cambridge, england
in 1968, president lyndon b. johnson's commission on civil disorders warned that racism was causing the country to move ``toward two societies, one black, one white _ separate and unequal.''
in 1968, at the grammy awards, the fifth dimension's ``up, up and away'' won record of the year for 1967, while album of the year honors went to the beatles for ``sgt. pepper's lonely hearts club band.''
twelve years ago: former president richard m. nixon and his wife, pat, returned to california after concluding an eight-day visit to china
eight years ago: former israeli foreign minister yigal allon, who had played an important role in israel's fight for independence, died at age 61
four years ago: canadian prime minister pierre elliott trudeau announced he was stepping down after more than 15 years in power
today's birthdays: actress michele morgan is 68. actor alex rocco is 52. former space shuttle astronaut jack lousma is 52
thought for today:
   ``thirty days hath september,
  april, june, and november;
  all the rest have thirty-one,
  excepting february alone,
  which hath but twenty-eight, in fine,
  till leap year gives it twenty-nine.''
                 _ anonymous
today is tuesday, march 1, the 61st day of 1988. there are 305 days left in the year
today's highlight in history:
on march 1, 1932, the infant son of charles and anne lindbergh was kidnapped from the family's home near hopewell, n.j. remains identified as those of the baby were found the following may. bruno richard hauptmann was tried, convicted and executed for the infant's murder
on this date:
in 1781, the articles of confederation were adopted by the continental congress
in 1790, the first u.s. census was authorized
in 1803, ohio's legislature met for the first time. this event was recognized by congress in 1953 as the official date of ohio statehood
in 1864, rebecca lee became the first black woman to receive a medical degree, from the new england female medical college in boston
in 1867, nebraska became the 37th state of the union
in 1872, congress authorized the creation of yellowstone national park
in 1954, an armed group of puerto rican nationalists, firing wildly from the gallery of the house of representatives, wounded five congressmen
in 1961, president john f. kennedy established the peace corps
in 1962, the first k mart store opened, in garden city, mich
in 1967, u.s. rep. adam clayton powell of new york, accused of misconduct, was denied his seat in the 90th congress. in 1969, the u.s. supreme court ruled that powell had to be seated
in 1981, irish republican army member bobby sands began a hunger strike at the maze prison in northern ireland to demand political status for irish nationalist prisoners. sands died 65 days later
ten years ago: four people were killed and 70 injured when a continental airlines dc-10 blew two tires during takeoff and skidded off a runway at los angeles international airport
five years ago: president and mrs. reagan treated britain's queen elizabeth ii and prince philip to a mexican lunch at the president's ranch in california
one year ago: five people were killed at the pyrenees ski resort of luz-ardiden when a damaged chairlift pitched dozens of skiers onto rocks and snow as far as 150 feet below
today's birthdays: singer dinah shore is 71. former astronaut deke slayton is 64. national football league commissioner pete rozelle is 62. actor robert clary is 62. actor cesare danova is 62. singer harry belafonte is 61. actor robert conrad is 53. author judith rossner is 53. singer roger daltrey is 44. actor dirk benedict is 42. actor-director ron howard is 34. actress catherine bach is 34
thought for today: `we're all in this together _ by ourselves.'' _ lily tomlin, comedian
today is wednesday, march 2, the 62nd day of 1988. there are 304 days left in the year
today's highlight in history:
on march 2, 1939, roman catholic cardinal eugenio pacelli was elected pope. he took the name pius xii
on this date:
in 1793, sam houston, the first president of the republic of texas, was born near lexington, va
in 1836, texas declared its independence from mexico
in 1877, republican rutherford b. hayes was declared the winner of the 1876 presidential election over democrat samuel j. tilden
in 1899, congress established mount rainier national park
in 1917, puerto ricans were granted u.s. citizenship
in 1923, time magazine made its debut
in 1930, author d.h. lawrence died
in 1933, the motion picture ``king kong'' premiered at new york's radio city music hall and the rko roxy
in 1949, an american b-50 superfortress, the ``lucky lady ii,'' landed at fort worth, texas, after completing the first non-stop flight around the world
in 1951, the east beat the west, 111-94, in the first nba all-star game
in 1977, the u.s. house of representatives adopted a strict code of ethics that limited outside earnings and required detailed financial disclosures by its members
ten years ago: the senate banking committee recommended, 14-1, that the full senate confirm g. william miller to head the federal reserve board
five years ago: pope john paul ii began a visit to violence-torn central america, arriving in san jose, costa rica
one year ago: president reagan withdrew his nomination of acting cia director robert m. gates to head the spy agency in the face of possible rejection by the senate. the next day, the president nominated william h. webster
today's birthdays: children's author theodore seuss geisel _ also known as ``dr. seuss'' _ is 84. actress jennifer jones is 69. movie director martin ritt is 68. actor john cullum is 58. soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev is 57. author john irving is 46. singer lou reed is 44. actress laraine newman is 36
thought for today: ``it's the friends you can call up at 4 a.m. that matter.'' _ marlene dietrich, actress
today is thursday, march 3, the 63rd day of 1988. there are 303 days left in the year
today's highlight in history:
on march 3, 1887, anne mansfield sullivan arrived at the alabama home of capt. and mrs. arthur h. keller to become the teacher of their blind and deaf six-year-old daughter, helen
on this date:
in 1845, florida became the 27th state
in 1847, the inventor of the telephone, alexander graham bell, was born in edinburgh, scotland
in 1849, the home department, forerunner of the interior department, was established
in 1875, bizet's opera ``carmen'' premiered in paris
in 1879, belva ann bennett lockwood became the first woman to be admitted to practice before the u.s. supreme court
in 1885, the u.s. post office began offering special delivery for first-class mail
in 1918, germany, austria and russia signed the treaty of brest-litovsk, which ended russian participation in world war i. this treaty was annulled by the november 1918 armistice
in 1931, ``the star-spangled banner'' officially became the national anthem of the united states
in 1969, apollo ix blasted off from cape kennedy, fla., on a mission to test the lunar module
in 1974, nearly 350 people died in one of aviation's worst disasters as a turkish airlines dc-10 crashed shortly after takeoff from orly airport in paris
in 1982, the senate began debate on whether to expel sen. harrison a. williams jr. d-n.j., convicted of bribery and conspiracy charges in the fbi's abscam probe. williams resigned before an expulsion vote could be taken
ten years ago: the remains of comedian charlie chaplin were stolen by extortionists from his grave in cosier-sur-vevey, switzerland. the body was recovered near lake geneva 11 weeks later
five years ago: in a speech in los angeles, president reagan challenged the television networks to dwell on good news for ``national volunteer week.'' the networks declined
one year ago: comedian danny kaye, who enthralled audiences with his tongue-twisting patter in such films as ``hans christian andersen'' and ``the court jester,'' died in los angeles at age 74
today's birthdays: actor james doohan is 68. singer enzo stuarti is 63. princess lee radziwill is 55. actor ed marinaro is 38
thought for today: ``until we lose ourselves there is no hope of finding ourselves.'' _ henry miller, american author (1891-1980)
today is friday, march 4, the 64th day of 1988. there are 302 days left in the year
today's highlight in history:
on march 4, 1789, the constitution of the united states went into effect as the first federal congress met in new york. however, the lawmakers had to adjourn for the lack of a quorum
on this date:
in 1681, england's king charles ii granted a charter to william penn for an area of land that later became pennsylvania
in 1791, vermont became the 14th state
in 1829, an unruly crowd mobbed the white house during the inaugural reception for president andrew jackson
in 1837, the illinois state legislature granted a city charter to chicago
in 1861, the confederacy adopted the ``stars and bars'' flag design
in 1902, the american automobile association was founded in chicago
in 1917, republican jeannette rankin of montana took her seat as a member of congress, the first woman to be elected to the house of representatives
in 1925, president calvin coolidge's inauguration was broadcast live on 21 radio stations coast-to-coast
in 1933, in his inaugural address, president franklin d. roosevelt pledged effective leadership to pull the country out of the great depression, saying, ``the only thing we have to fear is fear itself.''
in 1933, the start of the roosevelt administration brought with it the first woman to serve on a president's cabinet: labor secretary frances perkins
in 1952, actor ronald reagan and actress nancy davis were married in san fernando valley, calif
in 1971, canadian prime minister pierre elliott trudeau married margaret sinclair in north vancouver, british columbia. they later divorced
in 1977, more than 1,500 people were killed when an earthquake registering 7.5 on the richter scale shook southern and eastern europe
ten years ago: the chicago daily news, founded in 1875, published its last issue with a huge headline reading, ``so long, chicago.''
five years ago: during his central american tour, pope john paul ii visited nicaragua, where he celebrated a mass that was interrupted by shouted revolutionary slogans from militiamen
one year ago: president reagan addressed the nation on the iran-contra affair, acknowledging that his once-secret overtures to iran had ``deteriorated'' into an arms-for-hostages deal
today's birthdays: actress paula prentiss is 49. rock musician chris squire is 40. actress kay lenz is 35
thought for today: ``history is not life. but since only life makes history, the union of the two is obvious.'' _ louis d. brandeis, u.s. supreme court justice (1856-1941)
today is saturday, march 5, the 65th day of 1988. there are 301 days left in the year
today's highlight in history:
on march 5, 1770, the ``boston massacre'' took place as british soldiers who had been taunted by a crowd of colonists opened fire, killing several people
on this date:
in 1766, a spanish official, don antonio de ulloa, arrived in new orleans to take possession of the louisiana territory from the french
in 1867, an abortive fenian uprising against english rule took place in ireland
in 1868, the senate was organized into a court of impeachment to decide charges against president andrew johnson
in 1933, in germany, the nazi party won a majority of seats in parliamentary elections
in 1946, former british prime minister winston churchill, during an address at westminster college in fulton, mo., spoke of an ``iron curtain'' stretching from the baltic to the adriatic
in 1953, soviet dictator josef stalin died at the age of 73 after 29 years in power
in 1970, a nuclear non-proliferation treaty went into effect after 43 nations ratified it
in 1976, the british pound fell below $2 for the first time
in 1977, president jimmy carter took questions from 42 callers in 26 states on a network radio call-in program moderated by cbs-tv newsman walter cronkite
in 1982, comedian john belushi was found dead of a drug overdose in a rented bungalow in hollywood. he was 33
in 1984, the u.s. supreme court ruled, 5-4, that a city could use public money to set up a nativity scene without violating the constitutional separation of church and state
ten years ago: striking miners voted overwhelmingly against a proposed contract that would have ended a 90-day walkout. president jimmy carter began considering measures to try to force the miners back to work
five years ago: bob hawke and his opposition labor party defeated australian prime minister malcolm fraser's conservative coalition
one year ago: president reagan called on congress to approve the final installment of a $100 million aid package for nicaraguan contra rebels, one day after a speech in which he'd called his iran initiative a mistake
today's birthdays: actor rex harrison is 80. actor dean stockwell is 52. football player-turned-actor fred williamson is 50. violinist eugene fodor is 38. singer andy gibb is 30
thought for today: ``having only friends would be dull anyway _ like eating eggs without salt.'' _ hedda hopper, american gossip columnist (1890-1966)
you can't look at david j. colmans' book, but you can read it
the book _ on using computers in public relations and related fields _ was written on computer by people contacted via computer, edited on computer and published on computer
and since it exists only in the memory of a computer in columbus, ohio, the book can only be read by using a computer
the essence of the book is to share information on the `this is how i do it' use of technology in the communications arts,'' said colmans, vice president of an atlanta public relations firm
colmans is one of about six ``system operators'' of a computer network called the public relations special interest group. along with co-editor ron solberg of chicago, he has compiled the book over about four years
in it are chapters written by the public information officer for kansas city, mo., who tells how he has set up a computer network to tell citizens what is happening in the city; discussions of ``voice mail,'' a sophisticated, computer-operated telephone answering and message system; and numerous other aspects of how to use technology in the field
the computer book, which would be about an inch thick if printed, is better than one on paper, colmans said, because ``once you buy a hardcopy book and put it on the shelf, that's it for eternity _ whatever's in the book is the information.''
with an on-line book, not only are you not stuck with having to have all the information sitting on your shelf, ... but the minute something becomes obsolete, bang, it's gone. and the minute something comes in that's interesting and new, in a matter of a couple minutes it's on line and available for everybody to see,'' he said
the book _ with the official title of ``the functional use of computers in public relations, marketing and advertising'' _ is a true creature of electronics
virtually the entire book was brought together through electronic mail messages and sharing of text as opposed to voice communication,'' colmans said
there were very few phone calls. ... the book itself was created in an electronic communications environment. i have met, face to face, about six of the 40 to 50 people that i communicate with electronically. most of them are just type on a screen to me,'' he said
colmans is not your average computer hacker, sitting in front of a terminal, wrapped up in the nuts and bolts, or bits and bytes, of technology
about five years ago, i started getting interested in computers to help me do my work, not just to play with, because i'm one of those people that can't write a program,'' he said
i don't know how a computer works any more than i know how a television set works. but i do know how to turn on a tv and i do know how to turn on a computer.''
in compiling the book, colmans said, ``the big issue that we discovered was, and still is today, that there are so many kinds of computers out on the market and there's a real lack of understanding among computer users that ... you can actually get those computers to talk to each other.''
because the book has not been published in the traditional sense, colmans earns nothing from the people who use it
we have not done this project to make money; we've done this project to share information,'' he said, although there has been some discussion about publishing a ``hardcopy of the book'' in the future
allan hendrickse, a mixed-race politician and member of president p. w. botha's cabinet, defied apartheid laws more than a year ago and went swimming at a whites-only beach. then at botha's demand, he apologized
doubts immediately arose that the highly regarded hendrickse would ever regain credibility among his non-white constituents
but he has made a remarkable comeback
hendrickse now is recognized as perhaps the only elected official in south africa with both the will and the power to defy the president
as leader of parliament's mixed-race chamber, he is in a position to force botha's national party to the polls next year, three years earlier than it would like
botha he needs consent from all three chambers of parliament to delay the election from 1989 to 1992. hendrickse, whose labor party holds 76 of 85 seats in the house of representatives, says he won't acquiesce unless botha abandons the government's policy of segregated neighborhoods
this demand is unlikely to be met and has resulted in hendrickse's forced resignation from the cabinet. but the confrontation appears to have boosted his popularity among the country's 3 million ``coloreds,'' as mixed-race south africans are called
suddenly a lot of people who were disinterested or antagonistic are now realizing that you can find yourself in a position of altering the course of history in this country,'' hendrickse, 60, said at a recent news briefing. ``it does give you and the people you represent a feeling of importance.''
hendrickse's political fortunes have seesawed since he helped found the labor party in 1969
he was detained for two months in 1976 for his anti-apartheid stance, but came under fire from activists in 1984 when the labor party agreed to participate in a new tricameral parliament setup. chambers for asians and coloreds were created to join the dominant white chamber, although the nation's black majority remained excluded
the asian and mixed-race chambers are allowed to handle their ``own affairs'' _ deciding to how to allocate public funding for their own communities, for example. but the 1984 constitution gives the majority party in the white chamber almost total power to set national policy and to override even combined opposition from the other chambers
hendrickse said he would cooperate with the new system for five years in an effort to dismantle apartheid from within. activists nonetheless denounced him as a sellout for joining botha's cabinet as minister without portfolio
our participation within the system must not be construed as an acceptance of the system,'' said hendrickse. ``we walk the difficult road of being in and yet being out.''
in january 1987, the portly politician made a seemingly bold challenge of the government by wading into the surf at a whites-only beach in port elizabeth
botha, in a televised speech, furiously ordered hendrickse to apologize or quit the cabinet. hendrickse apologized
it was a demolition job with such humiliation for rev. hendrickse that he is unlikely to recover from it,'' peter gastrow, chairman of the white opposition progressive federal party, said at the time
now, white liberals applaud hendrickse's tougher tactics and are considering possible alliances with his labor party
hendrickse still has many detractors, including activists who totally reject the tricameral parliament. at the university of the western cape, a leftist, predominantly mixed-race school, rector jakes gerwel said hendrickse's resurgence had been ``a non-event.''
the pro-government media also has been critical, for different reasons. the citizen, a johannesburg newspaper, maintained that the labor party had become ``fractious and militant'' after being set on a ``dangerous collision course'' by hendricske
hendrickse says he holds no personal animosity toward botha but is clearly pleased at having found an effective means of challenging him
it's not a question of personal power or strength, but rather a recognition of the correctness of the decision to participate (in parliament),'' he said. ``in spite of the constitutional inadequacies, we were able to find a gap, a weakness, and thus find ourselves in a powerful position.''
in addition to his leverage over the election schedule, hendrickse has blocked a government proposal to begin joint debates among the three parliamentary chambers. without joint voting and other reforms, the change is meaningless, hendrickse maintains
regardless of whether the white election is delayed, hendrickse wants mixed-race elections to proceed as scheduled next year. only 30 percent of colored voters went to the polls in 1984, when activists urged a boycott, and hendrickse says the turnout next year could rise to 50 percent
he said pro-government forces are seeking to weaken him by dividing his party. allegations have surfaced that national party officials tried to bribe labor party members into deserting him
there is speculation that botha may retire soon, and hendrickse has raised an intriguing scenario regarding the choice of a successor by the electoral college
the college consists of 50 national party members, 25 labor party members, and 13 members from the asian chamber's majority party. hendrickse says the asian and mixed-race electors could thwart the selection of a hardliner if they could persuade seven or more relatively liberal nationalists to join them in electing a moderate, such as foreign minister roelof ``pik'' botha, no relation to the president
hendrickse was raised in uitenhage, near port elizabeth, the fifth child of a congregational minister. he grew up in an integrated neighborhood and became a minister himself
in 1971, the mixed-race community was forced to move to a colored township under terms of the group areas act, which mandates segregated neighborhoods. hendrickse has described his father's anguish as he watched their home and church being destroyed
now, he wants the national party to abolish the group areas act and says he has done enough compromising
fourteen candidates of various political hues are in the race for venezuela's presidency, but polls give two centrists the leading edge so far in the campaign for december's balloting
a former anti-government guerrilla hopes to become a serious third option, but the other 11 candidates are given little chance
one of the centrists is eduardo fernandez, who is known as ``the tiger.'' the other is carlos andres perez, a former president who has been matching practically every every campaign promise fernandez has made
the former guerrilla is teodoro petkoff, a socialist
fernandez and perez represent the two political parties that have dominated venezuelan politics since dictator marcos perez jimenez was overthrown in 1958 after six years in power
accion democratica (ad), the social democratic party now in power, is fielding perez, a 69-year-old charismatic leader with considerable political experience
perez's government in 1973-77 is popularly associated with the oil-prices boom in 1974
he is considered to have a slight edge now for the dec. 4 election, although the 47-year-old fernandez, the copei or christian democratic party candidate, has made inroads by raising the issue of electoral reform
after a shaky start, fernandez took the initiative with calls for direct elections of state governors, rather than by presidential appointment, and voting for individual congressional candidates, rather than by party lists
i don't think there is an electoral system in the entire world as primitive as ours,'' fernandez told reporters recently
according to a recent gaither poll done for perez's ad, the promise of reform enabled fernandez to narrow the distance between him and perez to 11 percent by late january, from around 30 percent in november
following fernandez's electoral-reforms proposal, perez came up with one of his own
i propose to the nation a pact for reform, to deepen and open our democratic system,'' perez announced at a public celebration jan. 23 marking the 30th anniversary of the perez jimenez's overthrow
the 10-point pact for reform contains proposals almost identical to the fernandez's
the only thing (perez) has to do now is support my candidacy,'' fernandez complained at a recent rally
the two major parties have staked out electoral bases so broad that voters are sometimes hard pressed to see a difference
fernandez and perez preach political reforms of the democratic system, but they agree it should stay democratic
they argue about the degree of state intervention in the economy, but they agree the state should intervene
copei, a member of the christian democratic organization of america, is considered somewhat more conservative, while ad, which belongs to the socialist international, is more labor-oriented
but they are both centrist. their members run from conservative to liberal, but most are somewhere in between
venezuela's presidency has flipped back and forth between the ad and copei five times in the six elections from 1958 to 1983. an ad candidate succeeded an ad president only once
their success in dominating venezuelan politics has relegated all the other parties to marginal political roles
the ex-guerrilla petkoff is carrying the banner of the movimiento al socialismo
in the 1960s, when an indigenous guerrilla movement was active, petkoff preached a socialism bordering on communism
but he gave up his fight, accepting amnesty offered by the government. he moderated his views and is now a member of congress. his party dropped its affiliation with moscow following the soviet-led invasion of czechoslavakia in 1968
but even though petkoff started his campaign by trimming his bushy moustache and longish hair in an effort to dispel any conceptions of radicalism, he isn't expected to win much more than 5 percent of the vote
that was as much as his party got into 1978, its best year
the remaining candidates are even worse off. they are formally in the race but are not making much of a difference
venezuela's first woman presidential candidate, ismenia villalba, is running on the slogan, ``ismenia, take her into your heart.''
this is one of a series of periodic reports by associated press correspondents on the way of life in other countries
india is taking the bullock-cart into the 21st century
at least 500 researchers in about a dozen government-aided institutes are at work modernizing the ancient, creaking, plodding carts, and even the world bank has donated funds. carts of various shapes and designs, made of plastic and aluminum, are being tested or have been developed
there is nothing funny about our project,'' said mittar pal dhir, director of the road research institute in new delhi. ``for us, animal-drawn carts are of great importance.''
india has an estimated 13 million bullock carts drawn by about 26 million of the neutered bulls, along with 2 million carts pulled by water buffaloes, camels, horses, mules and donkeys
the carts are seen most often in villages, where about 640 million of the india's 800 million people live
but they also are seen on major highways and an estimated 3 million plod along city streets, often slowing engine-powered traffic and infuriating motorists
bullock carts have even been used to pull mig fighter jets to parades and earth satellites to launching pads
dhir said it would be 50 years before india could eliminate animal-drawn carts, given their crucial role in indian life
capital investment in animal-drawn carts is put at $7.6 billion
more than 20 million indians earn their living by driving, renting, and repairing the carts
the figure is striking given the fact that indian railways, the fourth largest in the world, employ only 16.3 million people,'' said rupinder gupta, a mechanical engineer for the road research institute. gupta has designed six types of bullock cart for field trials
each year, animal-drawn carts move 14.4 million ton-miles of freight
dhir estimates that india's animal-drawn carts provide about 40 million horse-power, equal to about 320,000 medium-duty trucks used in the united states as city delivery vehicles
without bullock carts, india also would have had to import an additional 6 million tons of fuel each year. it now imports 17 million tons of crude oil annually
one of the innovations is the replacement of the carts' wooden-spoke wheels with pneumatic tires
engineer gupta said carts with pneumatic tires can pull 2.5 tons of weight against the maximum capacity of 1.5 tons for conventional carts
researchers in the southern state of karnataka also have come up with plastic bullock carts, and in neighboring andhra pradesh state a tire company has produced carts of lightweight aluminum
another idea behind non-wooden carts is to reduce demand for lumber. an estimated 165,000 medium-sized trees are felled each year to make conventional carts
so you see, there is a solid logic behind metal carts,'' said gupta
he listed other reasons for updating the carts
we want to increase tillage and output, reduce damage to roads and injury to animals so that the poor animals can have a longer lifespan,'' he said
to protect the animals, curved and padded yokes are being introduced. studies have shown that some draft animals' lives are cut short by cancerous infections on the neck from unpadded and uncurved yokes
reflectors are being added as another safety feature
other new fittings are bush bearings, cast-iron springs, shock absorbers, draw bars that adjust for animals of different height, and mud scrappers
a fodder box can be put on carts that go long distances
as for road damage, director dhir said the biggest culprit is wooden wheels
in monetary terms the annual damage is to the tune of 7,000 million rupees ($538 million) to the roads,'' he said
farmers seem to like the idea of improving bullock carts
it is an excellent idea,'' said jhandu singh, 64, of jharsa, a village 30 miles south of new delhi
but this should have had been done 25 years ago. we have suffered for long, and so did the animals.''
officials, too, say the new carts are catching on, but this itself is creating problems
we do not have enough new types of carts for all,'' said kalle khan, project economist of the district rural development agency in jharsa, whose office received only 16 new carts
there are more than 200 claimants. even some gypsies saw the carts and were attracted. they wanted at least one. i told them no. these are for farmers.''
another reason for high demand is that the government is subsidizing the price by about 35 percent
it is estimated that the largest of the old wooden carts costs the equivalent of about $300. newer wooden carts, without the government subsidy, cost $270 to $460. the plastic and aluminum carts are 25 percent more expensive. photo. colorfoto subscribers get 1 35mm slide.)</note>

editor's note _ the former mayor of syracuse, n.y., will be sentenced this week on charges that he extorted hundreds of thousands of dollars from people wanting to do business with the city. lee alexander, a democrat, pleaded guilty to the charges, saying he accepted sole responsibility for what happened
in his day, lee alexander was one of the most visible mayors in america, a politician who seemed destined for bigger things
now he appears destined for prison
as mayor of new york's fifth-largest city, alexander had a penchant for beautiful women, chauffeur-driven limos and bodyguards. he was a snappy dresser with a deep tan, his hair always in place
during his 16 years as mayor, alexander, a democrat, was often the spokesman for the nation's mayors. he served as president of the u.s. conference of mayors and six times was elected president of the national conference of democratic mayors
there was talk of a big job in washington, speculation that he might some day run for governor. party leaders made him their candidate for the u.s. senate in 1974, but he lost the primary to former u.s. attorney general ramsey clark
now it turns out the man who looked so urbane and polished was actually an extortionist, using his power to coerce money from people wanting to do business with the city of syracuse
alexander's scheme preyed on architects, lawyers, engineers, and insurance agents. they paid him up to 25 percent of the cost of the project and payments were made in bonds, gold coins and cash
for example, an architect paid alexander $125,000 for the opportunity to work on a project at the city's hancock international airport and another paid $25,500 for a hospital parking garage expansion. an insurance agent paid an alexander bagman $26,200 for a fire policy and a lawyer paid a bagman $2,878 to handle the legal work on a downtown building project
a lot of people turned down the deals and nothing happened,'' said u.s. attorney frederick j. scullin. ``alexander was astute enough to know where he could put the pressure. if someone caved in, well, he kept the pressure on. if someone rebuffed him right away, he'd back right up.''
by the time alexander left city hall in 1986, he was a millionaire
now he has to pay it all back
alexander pleaded guilty to charges that he violated federal racketeering laws by using his power as mayor to extort money, that he conspired to obstruct the investigation and that he evaded income taxes on his illegal profits
sentencing is scheduled for march 10
the federal prosecutor is recommending that alexander be sentenced to 10 years in prison and fined $100,000. scullin said he believes that a 10-year sentence would be longer than any handed to a public corruption figure in the nation
alexander could have faced 690 years in prison if convicted on all 40 counts of the original indictment
the former mayor has also agreed to return $1.2 million of his illegal profits. alexander has said the settlement will leave him in worse financial shape than he was in 1970 when he began his mayoral career
some of alexander's bounty was turned over to prosecutors by attorneys delivering shopping bags filled with valuable bonds and coupons. some of the money was banked overseas in such places as the bahamas and panama, according to scullin
nine other people who have pleaded guilty to charges stemming from the investigation will be sentenced along with alexander
alexander's undoing started with scullin's appointment as u.s. attorney for northern new york in 1982. scullin, who grew up in syracuse and earned his law degree from syracuse university, said he had heard talk that alexander was crooked
this thing really began when i first became u.s. attorney,'' scullin says. ``there were rumors on the street then about alexander being a wheeler and a dealer. if not kickbacks, then there was talk about a lot of conflicts. the rumors were pretty rampant. i decided we should look into it and put them to rest one way or another.''
at first, it was slow going. but the investigation persisted
you keep working and working, nibbling away at it, developing whatever information you can,'' scullin says. ``there was a pattern of no-bid contracts and professional fees
we got a couple of breaks. we got lucky.''
the internal revenue service and the fbi joined scullin's attorneys in the investigation. a witness came forward offering information in exchange for immunity. ``that was the crack in the dam,'' scullin says
at its peak, alexander was the focus of attention of a team of prosecutors, 20 fbi agents and another 20 irs agents
what they came up with was enough evidence to persuade a grand jury to indict the mayor
alexander always seemed on the verge of becoming a political heavyweight
in 1976, he passed up an opportunity to be an early supporter of jimmy carter's presidential campaign to serve as upstate campaign coordinator for the ill-fated campaign of henry jackson
his extortion scheme was designed to increase his influence with national politicians, according to scullin
he wanted to be considered a viable influence on the democratic party and make things happen,'' scullin said. ``he could get the money where other people could not.''
many of the kickbacks alexander arranged were made in the form of political contributions to big-time democrats, scullin said. new york city mayor ed koch, gov. mario cuomo and massachusetts gov. michael dukakis were among the recipients
toward the end he sort of lost track of the political contributions,'' scullins said. ``as he could see his star dwindling the last three or four years, i think he was more concerned about lining his own pockets. he got greedier and greedier as time went on.''
opponents were critical of alexander's frequent trips away from syracuse, saying he was more interested in traveling than tending to local problems. alexander defended his travels, saying he came back with federal money for his city
alexander found an opportunity to get some publicity one day when a gunman killed a man, then took a pregnant woman and her baby hostage in a predominantly black neighborhood, holding police off for most of the day
after being held back by police for many hours, news photographers were suddenly allowed to approach the house. the door opened and alexander ran out of the house clutching the baby to his chest. photographs of the mayor carrying the baby to safety were displayed by newspapers across the country the next day. black leaders complained that it was the only time alexander had ever visited the neighborhood
on the local level, alexander was a skillful and effective politician. until alexander came along, the republicans dominated syracuse and onondaga county politics. alexander's campaign not only ended a 16-year republican rule of the mayor's office, but led the democrats to control of the common council
not everyone liked alexander. when shots were fired at his house, police were prompted to build a guardhouse outside the home
city auditor roy bernardi was probably alexander's most vocal critic. bernardi's complaints were aimed mainly at the way the mayor did business
the auditor said he knew then that the city was paying too much money for projects and was always doing business with the same people
i noticed a pattern that if not illegal, and i had no proof of that, it was not in the best interest of the city,'' said bernardi, who is still the city auditor
ironically, while alexander was in power, his republican opponents who controlled surrounding onondaga county were the target of a special prosecutor investigating political corruption. despite the talk on the street, the special prosecutor didn't pay much attention to the democrats
the special prosecutor was appointed by then-gov. hugh carey, a democrat, to investigate allegations that republicans illegally coerced political contributions from public workers. the investigation netted convictions against several key republicans who claimed they were unfairly singled out for activities common in politics and also practiced by city hall democrats
but the crimes of the republicans pale when compared with what was going on in alexander's city hall office
the republicans were convicted of violations of a state law prohibiting political fund-raising in public buildings and misdemeanors. juries returned acquittals on the more serious charges. no republicans went to prison and no democrats were ever indicted in that special investigation
alexander is not talking publicly about his troubles, his lawyer said. after making his guilty plea, alexander issued a statement saying the city never paid for any services it did not receive
i accept sole responsibility for what happened,'' alexander said in his statement. ``while pursuing the highest standards of integrity with respect to the conduct of members of my administration, i did not apply those same standards to myself.''
tom young, a democrat, is the mayor now, and he runs things differently. instead of personally selecting who does business with the city, young has contractors submit competitive bids. young has a panel study the proposals before a contract is awarded
there are many who still believe alexander was good for syracuse
i never saw any sign of any wrongdoing,'' says robert visser, the city clerk who has worked in city hall since 1974
he did an awful lot of good for the city and eventually the good will outweigh the bad. if it had not been for the former mayor, the city of syracuse would not be in the great shape it is in today.'' photos. colorfoto subscribers get 3 35mm slides.)</note>

editor's note _ she was accustomed to the privileged life of an european princess, the daughter of king ferdinand and queen marie of romania and great-granddaughter of england's queen victoria and czar alexander ii of russia. today princess ileana leads the disciplined life of a cloistered nun as the rev. mother alexandra
her family jewels are gone and her castle is property of the communist state, but romania's princess ileana has found peace at a monastery in rural western pennsylvania
the 79-year-old princess is now known as the rev. mother alexandra, one of 12 nuns who share food, work and prayer at the romanian orthodox monastery
the nun of 27 years was the founder of the orthodox monastery of the transfiguration, the first english-speaking orthodox monastery in the united states
but vestiges of her royal past remain, even at the monastery
portraits of her parents, romania's king ferdinand and queen marie, hang in the living room of the a-frame house she shares with another nun
gold and silver icons dating as far back as the 15th century fill a corner of her bedroom, including one handed down in the family from czar nicholas i of russia and said to contain a splinter of christ's cross. antique icons also decorate the monastery's small, candle-lit chapel, as do crosses and triptychs, some of which she brought from europe
a small, gold container on a bed stand holds her most precious possession, a handful of romanian soil snatched during her escape from soviet communism in the wake of world war ii. she wants it buried with her
there's a big gap between then and now,'' she says. ``so much has happened in between.''
uncomfortable sitting with idle hands, the tall, stately nun worked on a knotted prayer rope as she reflected on her multifaceted life
it's been different so many times over,'' she says. ``but, you see, one lives day by day, doesn't one?''
she refuses to compare her royal and religious ways of life
there is no point,'' she said. ``i did my duty as a princess. and now i'm doing my duty as a nun.''
her superiors, nonetheless, are impressed by her example
as a person, as an individual, i have admiration because even not having a position, she could have had a social life, which would be much more in keeping with other people of her background,'' said bishop nathaniel popp, 47, head of the romanian orthodox episcopate of america
instead of saying she was a princess who became a nun, i think it was more she was a nun coming through the life of a princess.''
although just a child during the german invasion of world war i, princess ileana accompanied her mother, the queen, from hospital to hospital, administering to romania's wounded and hungry. by the time world war ii erupted, both her parents were dead, her older brother, carol, had ascended the throne, one sister had become queen of yugoslavia and another queen of greece
princess ileana was living in a castle outside vienna, wife of an archduke of austria and the mother of six
afraid of the nazi regime, princess ileana and her family moved in 1944 to romania. there she set up hospitals and did what she could for her suffering compatriots
in december 1947, the king of romania was forced by the communists to abdicate and the following week, princess ileana and the rest of the royal family were exiled
princess ileana immigrated with her family to switzerland and then argentina before settling in 1950 in the united states, a move that ultimately led to divorce. to support her children, she sold her cherished diamond and sapphire tiara, lectured about life behind the iron curtain, and wrote an autobiography titled, ``i live again.''
it wasn't until 1961, after her children were grown, that the 52-year-old princess became a postulant. she ended a second marriage to do so
in my heart,'' she says, ``i always wanted to become a nun. but there was so much to be done in romania when i was young.''
princess ileana took the monastic vows of stability, obedience, poverty and chastity in 1967 and, with that profession, became mother alexandra. later that year, she put up a trailer on 100 acres of farmland outside ellwood city and began building an english-speaking monastery for orthodox women of all ethnic backgrounds. photo. colorfoto subscribers get 1 35mm slide.)</note>

editor's note _ the society of automotive engineers was founded shortly after the turn of the century as a clearinghouse for a free exchange of ideas at a time when inventors were making contraptions that suited their own tastes. just as it set the standards for the production of automobiles, sae now is proposing interchangeable parts for spaceships
an organization of engineers, best known by its initials on motor oil cans, hopes to do for spaceships what it did for automobiles and airplanes
the society of automotive engineers (sae), founded in 1905, is a global engineering network for the exchange of ideas. members have included henry ford, orville wright, harvey firestone, thomas edison and charles lindbergh
sae writes standards on such things as what grade of motor oil works best in cold temperatures, how much reflection comes from a taillight lens, the process that makes a brake stop a car
more than 900 standards cover every passenger car
these standards make sure a product performs in a generally expected way. they are guideposts by which government and industry have measured performance for 83 years in self-propelled vehicles
we serve the public by getting the technology out so that others can build upon it and use it as a steppingstone without having to reinvent the wheel,'' says max e. rumbaugh jr., executive vice president of sae
sae now has its eyes on the stars
it created a space standardization advisory committee, which met for the first time in december, for possible standards on spaceships. sae hopes to work with the national aeronautics and space administration on guidelines that would reduce confusion, eliminate duplication and cut costs
the space program has been so unique, we've been experimenting with technology that is one of a kind,'' says arshad hafeez, sae's aerospace engineer
six of the 25 members on sae's exploratory committee are from nasa, which wants to have a space station in orbit in the next decade so it can assemble ships in space, among other things
it's getting to the point where some standardization will help everybody,'' says dick weinstein, manager of engineering standards and practices for nasa
there's enough on the horizon that if we don't do something soon, we could be in big trouble. everybody will be going in a different direction.''
rumbaugh adds: ``as they start putting things up there like a space station, you've got to have interchangeability of parts for repair and maintenance
you can't be coming back down here when a light bulb goes out and build a new one to take back up. standards allow you to reduce the cost of manufacturing. making one of a kind costs you a fortune.''
sae has its world headquarters in a three-story, red brick building about 30 miles north of pittsburgh near the pennsylvania turnpike and interstate 79
with 52,000 members in 82 countries, it has 25,000 technical papers on file, holds 20 meetings a year, publishes two magazines and has an engineering library
none of the volumes will make a best-seller list, but they titillate engineers
esoteric titles include: the internal combustion engine in theory and practice, volumes one and two; fuel alternatives for spark ignition and diesel engines; reinforced thermosetting plastics for ground vehicle applications; the toyota production method; and human tolerance to impact conditions as related to motor vehicle design
some car manuals are available in spanish, french and german
anyone who pours a can of motor oil can notice the letters sae along with numbers corresponding to the viscosity of the oil. sae standards cover 11 grades of oil, with lower numbers performing better in lower temperatures
oil companies voluntarily produce and label their products by sae standards
other sae deeds are less visible
a lot of the work is sort of boring,'' rumbaugh says. ``we don't have a lot of hoopla. sae just attempts to get the job done. oftentimes, a job can get done a heck of a lot better before it gets a lot of media exposure. we prefer to do things before getting the hype.''
sae was fringhouse for a free exchange of ideas at a time when inventors were making contraptions that suited their own tastes
each car still has unique style features. but sae standards cover such things as ounded as a cleahow much light is emitted by headlamps, the shade of red in a taillight, the area of the windshield that should be cleared by a wiper and the size of the lug nuts that hold a rim onto a wheel
sae also helped develop the closed-in auto body, the self-starter that replaced the hand crank, the hydraulic brake, the synchronized transmissions that eliminated gear noises and led to the automatic transmission, shatterproof glass, power steering and power brakes
the american automobile industry has thrived on the principle that the exchange of technical information improves society,'' rumbaugh says. `` they are less secretive than almost any other industry in the world.''
william sherman, writing in 1980 on the journalists also met with a member of what bleibtreu said was the contra human rights commission
salt lake city _ mayor palmer depaulis has invited a reporter to take a second look at the city the newsman described in print as a ``perry como kind of place'' where the mormon church dominates daily life
depaulis says he doesn't want to appear defensive but sent a letter to the los angeles times inviting david lamb to return for a second look
in his letter feb. 17, depaulis said lamb's story overlooked the city's rich cultural climate and ethnic diversity, as well as its beautiful mountain scenery
i wish he could see the 10th st. patrick's day parade, whose grand marshal this year is consul general of ireland, or the italian-american columbus day celebration, ongoing since 1934, or our annual greek festival and hispanic fiesta,'' depaulis wrote
the mayor said he might try to find a sponsor for lamb if the invitation is accepted
lawrenceville, ga. _ the gwinnett daily news will convert to morning publication in early may, the newspaper announced in its feb. 21 editions
it currently publishes in the afternoon five days a week and in the morning on saturday and sunday
executive editor jim osteen said, ``moving to morning publication will allow us to produce a more expansive, complete newspaper for our readers. it will also allow our coverage of sports and the stock market report to be more timely.''
the gwinnett daily news, purchased in june by the new york times, becomes the second suburban atlanta newspaper to switch from afternoon to morning publication. the marietta daily journal announced similar plans earlier this year
in the last 10 years more than 100 afternoon newspapers across the country have switched to morning publication. photo.)</note>

editor's note _ a boston television reporter took to the streets a few years ago and asked dozens of passersby to describe the current sky without looking up. only one in 10 could do so. that inspired him to design a sky-watching program for schoolchildren called ``for spacious skies'' that is getting rave reviews from many educators
it was a blustery new england morning, with a cutting wind blowing off boston harbor. people were staying inside if they could, but pat keohane and her first-graders were up on the school roof again, looking at the pale winter sky
what's moving the clouds?'' she asks, pointing at a bank of cumuli
the wind,'' reply the kids in an enthusiastic chorus
there's light blue, and dark blue and baby blue over there,'' says a little girl, her scarf flapping as she stared intently at the heavens
the boy next to her interrupted: ``there's a swordfish with a long nose.'' his comments were suddenly lost in a babble of other kids' voices
look, those clouds look like a sweat suit,'' said one
i see an upside-down dragon,'' another giggled
back at their desks later, the children took turns spelling sky-related words in a variation of the classic hangman game, doing well on big ones like ``lightning,'' and ``showers.''
a diminutive boy spelled ``rain,'' and ms. keohane asked: ``what would happen if we didn't have rain for 100 days?''
there would be no flowers and no wildlife,'' one of the pupils piped up
that wouldn't matter,'' said another. ``we'd still have water in the sinks.''
in ms. keohane's inner-city classroom at the josiah quincy school and at about 1,400 others across the country, teachers say that a program called ``for spacious skies'' is helping pupils academically and emotionally
some of those involved with the program go even further, suggesting that sky watching can turn tough inner-city kids away from drugs and desperation and on to aesthetic beauty instead
jack borden, originator of the program, says, ``wherever you are you have the sky, whether you are living in the high mountains or the worst of slums. as a matter of fact, the person living in the worst slums often has access to the most sky.''
a study conducted by researchers at harvard university's graduate school of education appears to support some of the positive claims made by teachers enthused about sky watching
using two classrooms at an elementary school in needham, a community about 15 miles west of boston, the study compared pupils who participated in ``for spacious skies'' in the fall of 1985 and again at the end of the school year, with those who were not encouraged to look at the sky
the researchers found that the emphasis on looking up, followed by drawing pictures and writing about the sky, ``significantly increased the level of aesthetic sensitivity in visual art and literature.''
the benefits gained from a program such as this would have a great value in any school curriculum,'' the study said
the program encourages children to keep journals on their observations and some of them write poetry and draw pictures, said researcher liz rosenblatt. ``the fact that kids are exposed to the arts in this way helps create an awareness that probably helps the increase in their skills.''
for spacious skies'' is named after the familiar first line of the katherine lee bates poem, set to music by samuel a. ward as ``america the beautiful.''
borden, a quixotic former television reporter, believes that we cannot spend life looking at our feet. his vision came to him about 10 years ago, while working at boston's wbz-tv
taking to the street, he asked dozens of passersby to describe the current sky without looking up. only one in 10 could do so
i myself was a non-aware person,'' borden says. ``then i began to see that it's a good thing to turn people on to the sky.''
since that summer day in 1977, borden, 59 , has formed a non-profit company to distribute ``for spacious skies'' teaching kits, which offer suggestions on how to use the heavens to teach just about anything
`for spacious skies' is designed to help teach mathematics, english, creative writing, music, art and science,'' according to the preface of a booklet meant for schools in the new england area. ``this program, just like the new england sky, is limitless. with the sky as a catalyst, your student's imagination can be challenged to its limits.''
the kits, which are mailed to schools for about $7.50, include guides for teachers on presenting the material. they contain tables of wind-chill factors, relative humidity and barometric pressure, songs about the sky, and sample observation sheets for students to note weather conditions
donna cataldo, a support specialist at josiah quincy, outlined the different uses of the program at her 830-pupil school:
some of the upper classes are keeping charts about the length of the day and how that relates to the harvest and growing cycles, and that brings out social studies...what are some of the origins of feast days and festivals that are based on the length of the days and the growing season
at lower grades, kids can do bar graphs of how many sunny days there were in january and how many snowy days there were...measuring and counting and a number of interdisciplinary skills. it allows children to write. they might also do a science project around wind speed.''
gov. michael dukakis proclaimed last march 18 ``for spacious skies day'' in massachusetts
the american meteorological society honored the program for its work in public education a year ago and scheduled presentations on ``for spacious skies'' at its annual meeting this year at anaheim, calif
weather forecasters are borden's key allies in getting the word to teachers about sky watching. many have mentioned the program during their broadcasts, and some have gone even further, incorporating aspects of ``for spacious skies'' in weather lectures and seminars for children and teachers
meteorologist bruce schwoegler of boston's wbc-tv said he was amazed at the interest in ``for spacious skies'' booklets offered on the air to teachers
i ran a three-part series in our news last march in which we offered 3,500 teachers' guides...and we had a very enthusiastic response,'' he said. ``they were all gone within a month.''
in pittsburgh, weatherman brian sussman of kdka-tv said his station's booklet giveaway had similar success
discussing the program's value in tougher inner-city schools, sussman drew parallels between sports and sky watching
just like athletics has been a vehicle to get kids out of the ghetto, i'm looking at `for spacious skies' as a vehicle for sparking interest in a particular field like geography,'' he said. ``what i'm seeing is kids who are interested in something else than mtv. they, for the first time, are observing the beauty of nature.''
violet witherspoon, a disciple of sky watching who teaches the third-grade at the john marshall elementary school in boston's dorchester section, expressed similar sentiments
i told the children, `you don't need drugs, let the sky be your drug,''' she said
they can look at the sky and daydream. they don't have to have fine clothes, they don't have to have fine cars, beauty is all around them, and it's free.'' photo.)</note>

editor's note _ born in a virginia hill town, seka got interested in the porn business through her boyfriend who owned adult bookstores. today she's a legend in the adult-film industry, as a performer and as an astute businesswoman
a porn queen who found her way to the other side of the camera is ascending toward the top in a $1 billion-a-year business where many women work but precious few call the shots
she's a platinum blonde whose stage name is seka. at 33, she has appeared in more than three dozen hard-core adult films over the past decade
she is still legendary,'' said paul fishbein, publisher of adult video news magazine. ``when today's generation delves into the adult-film market for the first time, she is still the one they want to see.''
but the big reason for seka's financial success is that she sued her manager under federal corruption laws and gained control of her name, her films and a business that turns annual profits in six figures
dressed demurely in a sweater and slacks and tucked into the corner of a dark restaurant, seka looks every bit the businesswoman she is as chief executive officer of the chicago-based pearl productions ltd., which sells everything from lighters with her logo to panties
nobody has ever taken care of me,'' seka says matter-of-factly, running a bright pink fingernail through her close-cropped, platinum hair. ``and as long as i look after business, nobody ever will.''
seka (she will not disclose her given name) was born in the virginia hill town of radford, where the main industry was an arsenal that manufactures dynamite
she married a factory worker before she finished high school, but the marriage didn't last long
all i knew was i wanted to be on my own. i wanted to be independent,'' she recalled. ``i didn't want to wake up and have someone next to me saying, `fix me coffee and breakfast.'''
her introduction to the porn industry came during the mid-1970s through a boyfriend who owned adult bookstores. the more she became involved in the trade, the more she became convinced, ``i could do it better.''
she worked her way back from the distributors she knew through the bookstore business to the moviemakers themselves, went to california one bright day in 1977, answered an ad for a nude model, and started working that afternoon
seka was paid $200 for her first movie, a 15-minute, 8mm film
many of her early films _ she made more than two dozen between 1977 and 1979 _ were only slightly more memorable, although the pay scale improved considerably
she was, however, just another 23-year-old ingenue making adult films, indistinguishable from dozens of other young women in the de rigeur black nylons and garter belts of the times. then she met a makeup man with big plans. it was 1980 and the home-video market was just beginning to heat up
he made her over, bulked her up with weights and vitamins, changed the way she dressed, and managed her business in the bargain. her new look debuted in 1981 in club magazine and the result was booming sales
yet, after what should have been a very profitable rise to the top of her profession, seka had to hire an attorney simply to look at her own books. one glimpse and she sued her manager for diverting income
she worked sparingly over the next two years, ultimately finding herself in 1984 with a handsome settlement and control of a potentially lucrative business now that the home-video market was changing the rules of the adult-film game
no longer dependent on recovering most of the costs from theaters, adult film-making became an almost risk-free venture
a handful of pornographers had recognized the home-video market's untapped potential ahead of the major movie studios and already were doing land-office business
a movie that could be made for as little as $150,000 if shot on film _ or $20,000 if shot directly onto videotape _ becomes a profit-maker after only moderate sales and rentals
that meant an adult film had only to sell about 20,000 videocassettes _ an average wholesale cost of $25 per cassette _ to qualify as a megahit. by comparison, a major movie studio needs to sell 50,000 units to approach the same status
and seka needed only one look to realize that under the new economic reality, age and overexposure were threatening her main asset _ her body
so in 1984 she added a copyright attorney to gain control of her old material, then a contract attorney to make certain she got top dollar for whatever new material she released
she has made just two feature films since then _ only one has been released _ studied diction and elocution and devoted most of her time to mastering business skills: computers, flow charts, marketing and the like
her return to the adult-film industry as an actress came in a big way with the 1986 film, ``careful, he may be watching.'' the movie, which cost about $230,000 to make, stars seka in a dual role as twins, one evil, one not
she also conceived the story line, developed the script and served as producer. former porn star actor richard pacheco directed, making the film something of a trailblazing effort from start to finish
careful'' won the adult video news awards for best picture and best director, capped off by seka's induction into the hall of fame. but she says ``careful'' won't begin making money until it's been on the market for about 2{ years
i can wait,'' she said. ``i've got some projects, an exclusive magazine deal, things i can't talk about in the wings. i've even been offered the opportunity to be in a major motion picture, but there were casting couches behind the screen
at least what i do,'' seka concluded, ``is on the screen.'' photo.)</note>

editor's note _ janwillem van de wetering wrote his first book at age 40 after years of hopping around the globe and pursuing an interest in zen buddhism. the dutch-born author, who now lives in maine, was interviewed in new york where he was visiting his publisher
fans of offbeat mysteries set in exotic locales dote on dutch author janwillem van de wetering, a former amsterdam cop who spent two years in a zen buddhist monastery in japan
but even though his novels often have a zen flavor, van de wetering says the three heroes of what his publisher calls ``the amsterdam cop series'' are not followers of the oriental philosophy
they've never heard of buddhism or zen,'' says van de wetering, who now makes his home in maine, drawn there first by a zen teacher. ``i mention it sometimes, in a joking manner, because it's popular with the dutch intelligentsia. the police couldn't care less. they think it's all long-haired nonsense.''
yet, their supercool investigations read like they're following the zen practice of attaining enlightenment by intuitive insight, beyond intellectual reasoning
a lot of people do that,'' van de wetering says. ``if you can't figure it out, then don't try to figure it out but stay with it.''
van de wetering, now 56, wrote his first book when he was 40. it was ``the empty mirror,'' about his experiences in the zen monastery
he has written three childrens books, two novels, two books about zen, a biography of dutch diplomat-author robert van gulik and is best known for 12 mysteries, most set in amsterdam
the first mystery van de wetering wrote, ``outsider in amsterdam,'' introduced the wonderfully detached commissaris, a dutch municipal police officer, and his underlings in the murder brigade, adjutant grijpstra and sgt. de gier
originally i wanted to write a realistic book about the police,'' van de wetering said during a visit to new york to visit his publisher. ``i had been a policeman myself and thought i could do it. it never came off, even at first. none of the characters wanted to do that
grijpstra was going to be the nasty guy. he immediately became sympathetic. he is my dutchman, my everyman, my superego. he is not into fantasy. i intended him to be pretty dumb but he isn't
de gier turned out to have tremendous energy that everybody has as a child and then it gets repressed and organized by society. with de gier it never got organized. he is not in the police for any good purpose; he's an adventurer. he's tremendously curious; he wants to see what goes on. he doesn't necessarily sympathize with goodness and frown on evilness
the only one who's got it all together is the commissaris. he looks like a gray mouse, with his limp, but he really is a combination of them and goes beyond both of them. he is what i think a zen master ought to be like. the commissaris is convinced it doesn't matter what you do but he will always do the nice thing.''
two of van de wetering's mysteries have been made into movies in holland. contracts for an american movie have been signed for ``hard rain,'' published in 1986 by pantheon. ballantine has published all the mysteries and the two books about zen in paperback
the author, whose name is pronounced yan-villum van de vet-tevin, started visiting a zen teacher on the coast of maine in the 1960s. in 1975, he and his colombian wife, juanita, settled nearby. he became disillusioned with the zen teacher but stayed in maine because he likes the country. his wife took up gardening. their daughter is married
we live on 60 acres, which is quite normal there,'' he says. ``i see my neighbors when i go look for them. but too many artists hang out in that part of the world. we meet each other in endless encounters that consume too much time. i really have to discipline myself when i go to the post office not to lose all day
the weather is so interesting. we all have boats. there's a big colony of seals and we talk about what they do and what bird is coming for the summer or leaving for the winter
i have very little discipline. if i don't want to work, i peer at the window and hope the dog will come in. when i want to work, i'll work through the night and the next day won't go to the post office.''
van de wetering's hobby is making junk sculpture, which he displays around his property
i was always frantic about finding certain parts. an old man said, `just let it come to you.' i do that all the time now. when i turned 50, i was worried about dying. i wanted a vehicle to guide me across _ a horse. the afternoon i thought of it, i went to the beach and found legs and ribs, a sheet of plywood that was a wonderful fit and rope for the tail.''
van de wetering learned about the amsterdam police work during seven years in the reserve police, working mostly nights and weekends
i had to do it because i got accused of dodging the draft. i left holland when i was 19 and never remembered to come back. it was kind of a punishment. i liked it. after four years i could have quit.''
at 19, van de wetering went to south africa to work, then to england to study philosophy for a year
dissatisfied with western philosophy, he spent two years in a zen monastery in kyoto, japan. after that he worked for a chemical company in colombia, in real estate in australia, returned to amsterdam to take over his uncle's wholesale textile business. he got bored with that, sold it after seven years and moved to maine
he started to write during the seven years in amsterdam
i always wanted to write,'' he says. ``i couldn't. i did bits and pieces and articles. i read that henry miller started when he was 40. i kept the desire alive. i started writing when i was 40.'' photo. colorfoto subscribers get 1 35mm slide.)</note>
mario van peebles, making his first real venture into television, is amazed that producers and network executives are listening to his suggestions and putting them on the screen
van peebles stars in the nbc comedy-adventure series ``sonny spoon'' as an unorthodox detective who is part con man, part actor, and regularly slips into other characterizations to get the job done
last year, he appeared in about six episodes of nbc's ``l.a. law'' and won the naacp image award as best supporting actor for his role in ``heartbreak ridge.''
brandon tartikoff, president of nbc entertainment, called him in for a meeting and asked him to do a series. producer stephen j. cannell saw a short film he did and wanted to work with him. so tartikoff, cannell and van peebles went to work on the idea of ``sonny spoon.''
van peebles suggested some scenes for the show. ``one is that i hide out in a baptist church dressed up as a big lady in the choir,'' he says. ``then the choral director points to me and i have to sing a solo. they used my suggestion
in another show, a friend of mine steals some jewels from a mobster, not knowing he's a mobster. when he finds out, i dress up like a priest and return the jewels
sonny's like a chameleon. he can plug into any character. in the episode we're doing now i go undercover as a white yuppie. i have blue eyes and blond hair
it's exciting for me as an actor. you get to play so many different roles. i can cross age lines, sex lines, race lines.''
during his lunch break in his trailer, which is parked in the veterans cemetery in westwood near the campus of ucla, he eats a quick lunch brought to him by his mother. later, the company moves to wilshire boulevard
on arrival at the new location, van peebles points to a banged-up yellow porche carbriolet. ``they wanted to give me a new porche,'' he says. ``i said no, sonny would drive a car with dents in it.''
until about two years ago, van peebles was working mostly in the theater as an actor, writer and director. he grew up in show business as the son of director-actor melvin van peebles
a short film he wrote, directed and played in, ``juliet,'' attracted some attention. ``it's about a girl who goes through a bunch of guys,'' he says. ``i played all the guys. cannell saw that and wrote some of those characterizations into `sonny spoon
van peebles says that both tartikoff and cannell encouraged his suggestions about the show
to tell the truth, i wasn't sure anything would come out of it,'' he says. ``that's why i was so bold in speaking up. for instance, i said i didn't want my character to carry a gun. i called him a `finagling humanitarian.' it's like when bugs bunny comes up against the tasmanian devil. he has to get out of that situation on his wits alone
that makes it a little tougher to write. it's easy to write that a character gets out of a car and pulls a gun. it's much harder to have him suddenly become a hispanic taxi driver.''
van peebles got a degree in economics at columbia university and went to work as a budget analyst for the city of new york
i figured if i could do mayor (edward) koch's budget i could do a movie budget,'' he says. ``i thought it was time to get back into acting and thought dad would help out. i took him to his favorite chinese restaurant. i said, `i've got my degree, are you going to help me out?'
he said, `no.' he said the restaurant was full of people who were waiting for a break. it was up to me to go out and make my own breaks. but mom and dad were very supportive. they came to see me in every little play i did. now i meet some kids of famous people who can't do anything on their own.''
van peebles likens his interest in acting, writing, directing and producing to working on a farm
on a farm you don't just do one thing,'' he says. ``you plow a field, fix the tractor, feed the chickens, patch up the barn roof. in other words, you do everything. that's the way i grew up in the business.'' photo.)</note>
alan ayckbourn may be known as britain's most prolific comic playwright, but the man often billed as an english neil simon says his plays are getting darker
in his 32nd play, ``woman in mind,'' now at off-broadway's manhattan theater club, the author presents a heroine on the brink of madness. audiences may laugh at first, ayckbourn says, but he hopes the chuckles ultimately catch in the throat
it's an attempt to be a popular play saying something serious,'' the 48-year-old ayckbourn said the other day in an office at london's national theater where he has been in residence as a director and a playwright since the fall of 1986
i stopped calling my plays comedies years and years ago,'' says the london-born writer who began his career as an actor and stage manager
people write and say, `woman in mind' is rather sad at the end, isn't it?' and i say, `well, yeah. i only said it was a play, not a comedy.'''
a rotund, engaging man with a low laugh that sometimes swallows up his words, ayckbourn has made his reputation over two decades by chronicling the humors and the horrors of the british lower middle class
while such colleagues as harold pinter and tom stoppard spin elegantly phrased dramas out of the mores of the well-heeled, ayckbourn's terrain is the same middle class that makes up his audience. they are the people he courts and, sometimes, critiques
i take the audience by the hand and take them down a path they would not normally have gone,'' ayckbourn says
that audience has remained loyal over two decades, since his 1963 play ``mr. whatnot,'' about a mute piano tuner, brought him acclaim and an agent, the influential margaret ramsey
according to a 1985-86 british arts council report, ayckbourn's plays were second that year only to shakespeare's in numbers of performances given throughout england's regional theaters
his work is performed in more than 35 countries as far afield as uruguay, australia, and kenya. although several have been seen on broadway _ most recently ``bedroom farce'' in 1978 _ he has not yet enjoyed a broadway smash
broadway is the toughest nut to crack, of course, in the whole world,'' ayckbourn said, conceding he was preoccupied with the new york reception of ``woman in mind.''
i don't know how they'll take it,'' he said of the play, which casts stockard channing _ 1985's tony-winning star of ``joe egg'' _ as a middle-class englishwoman named susan who seeks refuge from her dreary domestic routine in a fantasy world rife with its own dangers
i wanted to get inside somebody else's head, really inside it, and see if i could bring the audience with me,'' ayckbourn says. ``i also wanted to say, `this is what it must be like to have your powers of mental perception slipping away from you.'''
in susan's case,'' he continues, ``you suddenly realize she's unreliable _not deliberately, but that her perceptions of what is real and what is not are completely false. she begins to get reality and dream muddled.''
woman in mind,'' which had a successful west end production starring julia mckenzie, is just one recent ayckbourn play that looks at the moral and psychological underside of people and their society
in ``a small family business,'' currently at the national theater, ayckbourn weaves a tale of ethical decay in which the upstanding hero, jack mccracken, gets sucked into corruption both at home and at work
henceforward,'' which played houston's alley theater last fall with george segal and which opens on the west end with ian mckellen in november, dramatizes a futuristic british society dominated by thugs, hoodlums, and people who have become robots
it's a far cry from the ayckbourn of ``absurd person singular'' and ``the norman conquests,'' two hits from the mid-1970s which showed london and broadway the playwright's clockwork precision with a laugh
does the author sometimes feel that his earlier works were written by a different person?
it's like looking at an old snapshot and saying, `i don't remember looking like that,''' he said. ``i no longer really remember why i wrote them. i've just moved on.''
he said he's no longer as concerned with craft per se as he once was
when i started, it was like a kid discovering he's got 10 fingers. it's great to use them all, and i use them quite a lot,'' said ayckbourn, whose works often feature multiple endings _ some decided by coin tosses _ and chinese box-like plays-within-plays
once you've done a few of those bravado tricks and shown yourself you can do it, the technique i hope sinks a little bit.''
more recently, ayckbourn has had great success as a director. his production of arthur miller's ``a view from the bridge,'' starring michael gambon as eddie carbone, ended its acclaimed yearlong run on feb. 20
he also directed john ford's 1630 verse drama, ``'tis pity she's a whore,'' at the national's olivier auditorium. rupert graves, who appeared as the gamekeeper scudder in the film ``maurice,'' stars as the incestuous giovanni
now it's back up north to the yorkshire city of scarborough, a resort and conference town where ayckbourn is the artistic director of the stephen joseph theater-in-the-round. there, he will open his 35th play, ``love of my life.''
and what's that like?
he chuckles: ``it's a bit lighter.''
then came a series of jolts, starting with a summit meeting in october 1986 between gorbachev and reagan in which the leaders came close to agreeing on the elimination of all ballistic nuclear missiles. this stunned west europeans, who felt the americans had not adequately consulted them on such a proposal, which they strongly opposed
from that point, it was increasingly clear that major reductions in nuclear arms were likely. the first step was taken this past dec. 8 when reagan and gorbachev signed the treaty eliminating land-based intermediate-range nuclear missiles, representing about 4 percent of their arsenals
with the inf treaty, as it is called, expected to win u.s. senate approval within a few months, and the superpowers already agreed in principle to 50 percent cuts in their long-range, or strategic, nuclear arms, nato finds itself facing tough choices about adjusting its military posture
one of the most difficult and immediate choices is whether and how to modernize the u.s.-controlled nuclear weapons that will remain in europe after the american cruise and pershing 2 rockets are withdrawn
the gist of the debate is that most nato governments, including the united states, say this upgrading is vitally important, while most factions in west germany's coalition government strongly oppose it
lord carrington of britain, the nato secretary general, says the alliance must ignore soviet warnings that an upgrading of the nuclear arms would inflame the arms race and violate the spirit of east-west disarmament efforts
if you don't modernize, eventually you don't have any nuclear weapons, which they (the soviets) would like,'' carrington said in an interview
the west germans have clear reasons for disliking the more than 2,000 nato nuclear weapons that are candidates for modernization: most of them, including artillery, bombs and land-based missiles, are in west germany; if fired the likelihood is that many would strike only in east or west germany. while their nation is divided, germans still regard themselves historically as one people
the west german government in bonn wants nato to open negotiations with the soviets on reducing short-range nuclear arms _ those with ranges of less than 500 kilometers (310 miles) and not covered by the u.s.-soviet treaty. the united states, france, britain and other alliance members fear this would play into the hands of gorbachev, who has said repeatedly that his aim is to rid europe of all nuclear weapons
some european analysts worry that it eventually could be the undoing of nato itself
the reopening of the nuclear issue in germany has the potential ultimately to break up the alliance,'' pierre lellouche, deputy director of the institut francais des relations internationales, wrote in a recent newspaper column
from the u.s. viewpoint, improvement of nuclear weapons remaining in europe is directly linked to the question of whether some of the american troops in europe, mostly in west germany, may be pulled out
the reagan administration has said repeatedly that it opposes any troop withdrawals. yet u.s. secretary of defense frank carlucci said recently that if europe lost its short-range nuclear arms _ either through negotiation or obsolesence _ a troop pullout might be considered
america's allies have gotten the message
under whatever administration comes next in the united states, there will be more pressure for reducing the american commitment in europe,'' said de hoop scheffer, the dutch ambassador to nato
said another nato ambassador, speaking privately: ``there is a feeling here that despite the best intentions of the current administration, it's only a matter of time before the u.s. troop levels are reduced.''
manfred woerner, the west german defense minister who is due to succeed carrington as nato's top political officer this summer, was quoted as saying in a recent newspaper interview that he saw ``a certain evolution'' in u.s. thinking that raises some questions about how long the west europeans can count on the united states to keep its troops on the continent
that's why our european role (in nato) must reflect our own interests,'' he said
these are some of the top names in nato:
pierre harmel _ a belgian law professor, premier and cabinet minister, his 1967 report on the alliance's long-term goals remains the basis of nato strategy. it was the harmel report that identified the twin themes of seeking to establish an east-west detente while maintaining strong defenses
gen. dwight d. eisenhower _ the first supreme allied commander europe, serving from december 1950 to may 1952, at rocquencourt, france
lord ismay of britain _ the first secretary general of nato, serving in 1952-57
joseph m. luns of the netherlands _ nato's secretary general for a record 13 years. he was succeeded in 1984 by britain's lord carrington, the current secretary general
gen. bernard w. rogers _ an american, he was the longest-serving nato supreme commander. he retired last summer after holding the job for eight years
manfred woerner _ currently west germany's defense minister, he is scheduled to replace carrington as secretary general this summer. he will be the first west german to hold nato's highest political office
a few months ago, olga osipov had a good income from a prestigious job teaching chinese. now she and her family run a chinese restaurant and they are $25,000 in debt
but they saw it as an opportunity opened up to them by general-secretary mikhail s. gorbachev's economic reforms
perestroika,'' the name given gorbachev's modernization program, has changed the lives of people like mrs. osipov and her family and promises to touch millions more as the drive for a more efficient soviet economy gathers steam
the small chinese restaurant run by mrs. osipov and her family is their own, with each member owning a share and getting a share of the profits. it is officially recognized as a cooperative
the meikhua also is a model of what soviet authorities had in mind when they loosened laws last year to permit cooperatives and individual labor, such as moonlighting, giving soviet citizens an official touch of private enterprise
opened nov. 17, the meikhua cafe is the only known family-run chinese restaurant in the whole of the soviet union, which shares a 3,000-mile border with china
operating a cooperative gets around a major theoretical hurdle, because anyone who does not work for himself or for the state is thought to be exploited by an employer
but the meikhua cafe and other cooperatives face difficulties in offering alternatives to the state-run economy
meals in the cooperatives are more expensive than in the multitude of state-run restaurants. ingredients are hard to come by and consumer resistance is high because cooperatives' prices fluctuate with the market and availability
among the co-ops that have sprung up under the new law are establishments that produce plastic beach shoes and children's jackets sewn from scraps in armenia. others harvest fish, pick wild berries and repair apartments in the siberian city of kurgan
moscow has a cooperative extermination service and a cooperative that refers callers to other cooperatives. about 70 co-op restaurants have opened in moscow, which has a population of nearly 9 million
gorbachev told writers and editors in mid-january that 13,000 co-ops had been established and more than 300,000 people were working for themselves within the narrow confines of new regulations intended to encourage better supply, goods and services that in the state-run economy are notoriously slow and of poor quality
this is not particularly many for a country like ours, but nevertheless a step forward has been made,'' he said
each new venture must be approved, granted a location and outfitted by local authorities and the state-run enterprises against whom the cooperative competes. those who want to start a cooperative or work for themselves often report discouraging bureaucracy and heavy licensing fees
but mrs. osipov, taking a break one recent morning from chopping vegetables and meat in the meikhua's kitchen, said the bureaucrats moved quickly in her case because moscow had no cooperative serving chinese food
that is one indication officials are more interested in providing a little variety than in fostering competition
mrs. osipov's son, volodya, 27, a teacher of english and chinese, was washing floors and cleaning tables on his day off from teaching
i come at 9 o'clock in the morning and don't leave until 11 o'clock at night,'' mrs. osipov said. ``and my son, he's teaching at school from 8 a.m. until 2 p.m. then when he's done at school, he comes here by 3 o'clock.''
we work a lot,'' she said. ``honestly, it's hard.''
main dishes at the meikhua can cost from 2.90 rubles (about $4.75) for a pork and cabbage dish to 8 rubles ($13.25) for braised sea slugs, a specialty. the sea slugs must be marinated for several days and take several hours to prepare, mrs. osipov said
a five-ounce serving of rice costs 30 kopeks (50 cents). a few more kopeks brings a pot of jasmine tea
service at the restaurant's nine tables was quick and friendly, and everything on the menu was available. at state-run restaurants, it often is easier to ask the waiter which of the dishes on the menu actually are available, and service is notoriously slow
mrs. osipov was born in northeast china of a russian mother and chinese father. she and her husband cook home-style food from her native region
volodya, and another son, a daughter and son-in-law do everthing else. all but the 49-year-old mrs. osipov kept their old jobs or remained at their studies
the family would like to hire an extra cook and keep the cafe open longer than five hours a day, six days a week. but their intent to keep it essentially a family-run business fits well within the limited scope of the law
asked if he would prefer to teach or run the cafe, volodya said: ``i would like, if it was possible, to be more creative as a teacher, to work there. but it has been very interesting here so far. to create something is always interesting. here it's possible to govern yourself fully.''
the family needed 15,000 rubles ($25,000) to get started, and friends advanced some of the money to help them turn a former two-family apartment building into a restaurant. a bank lent more money at 3 percent interest, and government organization provided the kitchen equipment and furniture
the cafe's income is about 500 rubles (about $825) a night, roughly half of which goes for food, heat and electricity. family members are paid about 250 rubles ($413) each a month, some 50 rubles ($82.50) more than the typical soviet factory worker
because prices in cooperative restaurants are higher than in state-run restaurants, some soviets grumble that the cooperatives are too expensive for the average citizen
in a recent article, the communist party newspaper pravda printed several letters from readers complaining about prices at cooperatives
one letter writer, i. cherkashin of moscow, said cooperatives had not forced prices down by providing more competition but had driven them up
who is it that makes the laws on prices _ the market, cooperatives, or the government?'' he asked
cooperatives get the bulk of their food from farmers markets, where prices are unregulated and run substantially higher than state markets and stores. supply, while still uncertain, is usually better in the farmers markets, particularly for fresh fruits and vegetables rarely found in moscow during the long winter
we'd like to have a constant supply ... so we don't have to depend on the market,'' volodya said. ``if they are selling meat one day for seven rubles a kilogram and the next day for 12 rubles, our prices jump.''
to get the spices she needs for chinese cuisine, mrs. osipov travels occasionally to kirghizia, a republic of soviet central asia bordering china. but some spices, she said, cost a ruble ($1.65) a spoonful, adding more to the prices on her menu
if an award is given for silliest movie of the year, ``a tiger's tale'' is likely to have few serious competitors. it's not offensive, not insulting _ just plain silly
and it's too bad because a lot of the ingredients in this romantic comedy had potential for something better. ingredient no. 1 is ann-margret, an actress with so much skill and innate dignity that she almost saves the film. but not quite
she is cast as rose butts, the divorced mother of a wild teen-age daughter in a nondescript texas town. rose works as a nurse by day but spends her nights nursing lonely drunks
into her bored, sad life comes her daughter's castoff teen-age boyfriend, bubber, who becomes smitten with the mother and won't take no for an answer
thus begins an unlikely may-december romance between the naive 19-year-old boy and the middle-aged mom. but once the two begin to cuddle, no one seems to know what to do next, least of all scriptwriter peter douglas, who also directs
he diverts our attention to a few subplots. there's bubber's dilemma over whether to give up his pet tiger, valentino (the most enchanting performer in this flick). and there's bubber's widowed father's dilemma over whether to marry again. the father, a retired veterinarian who keeps snakes around the house, is portrayed by charles durning, another gifted actor whose efforts are wasted here
finally, a crisis is created to bring rose and bubber back in focus. it turns out that her daughter, shirley, enraged by mom's unconventional affair, has had her revenge. when she left to live with her father, she poked a hole in rose's birth control device. can you guess the result?
the rest of the plot is so preposterous you have to laugh
it should be mentioned that a major flaw from the outset is the lack of even the smallest spark of chemistry between ann-margret and her teen-aged lover, c. thomas howell, a gangly, wholesome kid with a texas accent who would seem more likely to fall in love with a horse
a tiger's tale'' is rated r for sexual subject matter
motion picture association of america rating definitions:
g _ general audiences. all ages admitted
pg _ parental guidance suggested. some material may not be suitable for children
pg-13 _ special parental guidance strongly suggested for children under 13. some material may be inappropriate for young children
r _ restricted. under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult guardian
x _ no one under 17 admitted. some states may have higher age restrictions
hollywood has never been able to get a fix on tony bill, and that seems to be just the way he likes it
he graduates from the university of notre dame in 1963 and steps into a star-making role as frank sinatra's brother in ``come blow your horn.'' just as his acting career is rolling, he turns filmmaker and co-produces ``the sting,'' which won an academy award as best picture of 1973
next he becomes a director, specializing in such unpretentious films as ``my bodyguard.'' he even established his own little studio, not in the mainstream but in the ragtag beachfront subur   bill has directed a new film, ``five corners,'' an off-beat comedy-drama about life in the bronx in the 1960b of venice. s. the only recognizable name in the cast is jody foster. it is the first screenplay written by john patrick shanley, who has received an oscar nomination for the script of ``moonstruck.''
i'm a nut for originality,'' bill said in an interview. ``i like original screenplays _ ones that are not from books or plays or short stories. i like scripts that are not like another movie i've seen. they are special, unique, personal, human. they're not about cars or robots f in ``five corners''?
i always said i'd never cast myself in one of my own pictures. i have fun now and then acting in other people's productions. i can always think of somebody better than myself when it comes to casting something.''
as an independent filmmaker, bill has experienced many rough periods _ ``lots of them, and there will be many more. lots of debts. lots of risks. lots of bets that i've lost, as well as bets i've won
it's the life of a professional gambler; that's what filmmakers are,'' he said. ``you put your money where your mouth is. you try to play the hand as well as it can be played. you think you've made a good movie, and it's a disaster. you think you've bet on a longshot, and it's a winner. it's the life of a poker player.''
concert pianist eugene istomin has loaded his steinway on a van and is driving from town to town for his 1988 tour _ an unusual way for classical musicians to hit the road
it hasn't been done this way for 50 years at least,'' istomin says. ``paderewski (the polish pianist and composer who died in 1941) had a private railroad car
there are a lot of places on my tour where so-called `big name' artists don't go. the seating capacity of halls is small and people can't afford to pay very high fees.'' istomin is accepting what he terms ``reasonable'' fees
i'm playing in a lot of communities which would otherwise not hear me, on a magnificently prepared, superb piano, playing a good program. it's giving me a lot of gratification.''
from january through may, his solo piano recitals are east of chicago. the western tour will start in september in texas
istomin, whose wife, marta, is artistic director of the kennedy center for performing arts in washington, is always on the move. last fall, he played a recital in brussels, ate a sandwich in his hotelroom at midnight, arose at 5 a.m. to fly to paris where he boarded the concorde to new york. he was met at kennedy airport, handed a tuxedo, taken to rehearsals for the grammy lifetime achievement award show and played that night on the televised show to honor isaac stern
you can not perform to your maximum ability, doing it this way, and i didn't,'' he said. ``it's the wrong way to do things.''
his intention now is to perform by making short hops from town to town for a few years or more
this tour is the right way to do things,'' he said. ``when you play, it doesn't have to be only for the fancy swells and sophisticates. the same kind of people, who read the same kind of books and listen to the same kind of music, live in smaller towns.''
the tour began at a college in winter park, fla., with the second concert at a senior citizens center outside miami
istomin has two programs. program a includes bach, schubert, beethoven, debussy and chopin. he has recorded program b for ada, a french company that releases compact discs. he calls it ``a bit more esoteric. schumann's `first sonata' isn't often played. it was written to murder the hands of pianists. it's terribly difficult and beautifully inspired, not the kind of piece you normally take on a barnstorming tour.''
he also will play debussy and some infrequently heard rachmaninoff on program b. ``that's what my pianos really serve for,'' istomin said. ``these pieces require a sophisticated brand of piano playing i can offer with these instruments.''
istomin has been thinking about a tour such as the one he's doing for years. ``i started playing at 17. i played 200 concerts in my first two seasons. i was soloist with the busch chamber orchestra, paid $250 a week by columbia artists management.''
his first of more than 40 recordings was bach's ``d minor piano concerto'' with the busch players in 1945
i played concerts with umbrellas stuck under the sounding board and keys that wouldn't go down,'' he said. ``i would complain. people would say, `he's a nasty young man.' the good part of it was that some very high-level music-making was done. i was part of it. i know we had a lot of success and people enjoyed the concerts.''
he'll probably give 100 concerts this year, too. ``i had the stamina half a century ago. i hope i have it now,'' the artist said. ``i'm 62. i feel like i'm 26 and hysterical. i think i never grew up
the concerts are strenuous but the traveling is easier these days.'' cities are not more than 300 miles apart; istomin and the piano technician drive by car, and luggage oes in the van with the piano
i like playing in unpretentious circumstances,'' he said. ``pretention is not the same as excellence. i think the public, wherever the town, is people who react to and feel what is happening. to me, that's the whole meaning of this trip
i'm not warming up for a program in some big hall. i've already played these pieces in new york and london. i want to play in winter park, fla., the way i play in carnegie hall
sometimes people ask me to sign a program they've saved 35 years. those people touch me. i want to do something really nice for those people, for whom music really matters.''
istomin played at a general motors cancer research award dinner in washington in 1981
they sent me a check for $7,000, my regular fee. i sent it back, donating it to sloan kettering institute for cancer research. they were touched by that and said to let them know if there was ever anything they could do for me. when i started thinking about this tour, i thought maybe they would help me.''
gm designed a van, with a hydraulic lift and temperature control, to carry istomin's piano and is lending it to him free. the tour itself doesn't have corporate sponsorship. transmitted jan. 11 under a washington dateline as part of the special edition on ``taxes and your money,'' are asked to used the following:</head>
the associated press, as part of the ``taxes and your money'' special edition, misstated the formula for determining what portion of social security benefits is taxable. the starting point for the calculation is total income subject to tax plus half the social security benefits
the ``home improvements'' special edition contains these stories:
b1050 bc-spe--home: interior painting (laserphoto ny704)
b1051 bc-spe--home: exterior painting
b1052 bc-spe--home: with painting
b1053 bc-spe--home: sunspaces (laserphoto ny701)
b1054 bc-spe--home: with sunspaces
b1055 bc-spe--home: cabinet refacing (laserphoto ny708)
b1056 bc-spe--home: roofing
b1057 bc-spe--home: chain saws (laserphoto ny709)
b1058 bc-spe--home: knives (laserphoto ny706)
b1059 bc-spe--home: wallpaper (laserphoto ny707)
b1060 bc-spe--home: mortgages
b1061 bc-spe--home: kitchen@bath (laserphotos ny703, ny705)
b1062 bc-spe--home: windows (laserphoto ny702)
b1063 bc-spe--home: wood patching
b1064 bc-spe--home: with wood (laserphoto ny700)
b1065 bc-spe--home: insulation (laserphoto ny710)
b1066 bc-spe--home: lighting
b1067 bc-spe--home: tools
b1068 bc-spe--home: briefs
b1069 bc-spe--home: fillers
you've heard it before and you'll hear it again: the success of your paint job will depend on how much time and effort you put into the preparation
it's nice to see the paint transform your lackluster walls and ceilings into gleaming brightness or unblemished freshness, but the pleasure will disappear quickly if you haven't prepared the surfaces properly
proper preparation means freeing the interior of loose dirt, peeling paint, oil and grease. it also means spackling all cracks and holes with spackling compound or patching plaster. the patches should be primed before the final coat of paint goes on, but read the label on the paint can to determine the manner of treatment
some professionals and many do-it-yourselfers apply a primer even when no patching has been done
it is especially important that any gloss be removed from the surfaces, since new paint does not adhere well to slick or shiny walls and ceilings. the gloss can be steel-wooled, sanded or given a coat of a special liquid that dulls the shine. unlike a few years ago, oil and latex paints can be used fairly well over each other, but a primer will insure an excellent result. the assumption is that you will be using a good paint, since it is poor economy to choose a low-quality paint when it is your own ``elbow grease'' that is being utilized. latex paints have little or no odor and make it easier to clean up after the job is completed
follow the rule-of-thumb that a high gloss paint usually is more washable, resists moisture and wears well, which is why it is preferred in kitchens and bathrooms. flat paints are the choice in most living rooms and bedrooms, being easier on the eyes. a semi-gloss paint is what the name implies, about halfway between the gloss and flat
the ideal way to prepare a room for painting is to remove everything from it, but this may be impractical. at least take out the lighter objects, moving the heavier pieces to the center of the room and covering them with a dropcloth or whatever is handy
all electrical switch plates, doorknobs, etc., can be taken off, but be extra careful about exposing any electric wires. ceiling fixtures can be dropped slightly to make the painting easier
in a casual room, you might want to try unusual effects. there are special rollers to give you offbeat results. you can do the same thing by dragging or swirling brushes, whisk brooms, sponges and rags across the paint while it is still wet, keeping in mind that easy does it if you want to avoid a mess. to find out what kind of results these gimmicky styles of painting will produce, try practicing on something like a piece of scrap wallboard
when you have estimated the amount of paint you will need, it's a good idea to buy an extra amount. for one thing, you always find something more you want to paint to blend in with the room. it may be only a bookcase or two, but if you have it on hand, it can be used at some later time for a touch-up job
buying the same kind of paint at a future time does not always assure that the shade will be identical with the original
some people just don't order enough the first time because they don't want to pay for unused paint. but many paint dealers will take back an unopened can if too much time hasn't elapsed. should you think that might be a problem, ask the dealer about the possibility
you may want to get on with the painting and not worry about whether you are trying to make a room seem larger or smaller, but if the latter concerns you, the proper color is the answer. want to make something in a room ``disappear''? paint it the same color as the room itself. want to make it stand out? paint it a contrasting color
if a room is long and narrow and you want it to seem a bit shorter, using white paint on two of the walls and a soft warm color on the two end walls will do the trick. when a side wall is painted white or a cool color, the room will appear to be wider. in the same way, a hallway that is too narrow can be made to seem wider if a side wall is painted white or cool
warm colors _ red, yellow, red-orange, yellow-orange and variations of red _ make it cool. thus, theoretically, rooms which get very little sunlight are best painted warm colors, those with lots of sunlight cool colors. in actuality, other factors, including the shapes of the rooms and their decorative features, usually affect the choice of colors, not to mention personal preferences
painting the outside of a house is never easy, but there's a certain amount of satisfaction in watching the paint work its magic
but getting the surface ready for the paint is another matter. caulking cracks, countersinking popped nails, scraping blistered and peeled areas, removing mildew, priming where necessary and performing the other preparatory steps all add up to plain work without the visual compensation of the actual painting
yet you must perform the preliminary phase of the operation with some degree of dedication or you will pay for it later
a house not adequately prepared may look very much the same as one that has been given the full treatment, but it is only a question of time before the difference is seen
the let's-get-it-over-with process begins to peel, blister, check or flake. the take-your-time-but-do-it-right formula pays dividends in the form of a continuous good appearance
poor paint, or the failure to handle the brush, roller or spray gun properly often gets the blame for what is nothing more than inadequate preparation
if you do not have the time or the inclination to get the house ready to paint, don't do it
check on whether the paint you plan to use will work well on the kind of surface you are covering. oil-based, alkyds and oil-modified alkyds all are excellent for wood siding, but the majority of do-it-yourselfers prefer latexes because they have blister resistance and, since water is the solvent, they make cleaning up a lot easier
once regarded as less likely to ``cover'' than other paints, they now have good hiding ability. some can be applied even over a damp surface. read the label on the container to see whether a primer is required, especially if the latex is being put over an oil paint designed to chalk
if brick or other masonry is being painted, be sure you have an exterior paint formulated for use on such surfaces. oil paints do not work well on any material containing cement, which has an alkali content that attacks the paint
exterior wood shakes or shingles usually are stained, although they can be painted. once they have been stained, they should be stained again when a second treatment is necessary. while you can paint over stain at a later time, a careful priming is required to prevent bleeding. if you paint the first time, you cannot stain later without removing the paint, which can be a messy job on shakes or shingles
when covering this kind of wood when a house is new, look over the various kinds of stains and pigmented sealers on the market. manufacturers of some of the pigmented types say they are more durable than the clear coatings. incidentally, you can get finishes with mildewcides in them or add a mildew-resistant compound to other finishes
as you paint, follow the sun; that is, paint where the sun just has been. in that way, you will not risk having the sun dry out the paint too quickly. it's also a lot more comfortable painting while in the shade
if you are using an extension ladder, use it with caution. most accidents occur when a person leans over too far. instead, get down and move the ladder. it may be a little more trouble and take a little more time, but it will keep you from getting hurt
work from the top of a house, usually in the left hand corner, and continue downward
always work in toward the wet paint, using wide, firm strokes. dip the brush about halfway and pat off the excess on the side of the container. if you are using a roller, be sure it does not take up too much paint and do not spin the roller at the end of a stroke. with a roller, work from a dry area into a wet one
color changes the seeming appearance of a house. if you want something to be inconspicuous, such as a garage door, paint it the same color as the main part of the house. a house looks smaller when it is painted with dark colors. light colors, of course, have the opposite effect. when a house seems to be too tall, paint it the same color as the roof. if you want it to seem higher, paint the siding a contrasting color
if you have been content with the colors on your house over the years, don't experiment. choose the same or nearly the same colors. 0119</first>
in painting indoors, rollers cover surfaces more quickly and easier than brushes, but brushes may be necessary for detailed work
consider the use of edging rollers. another possibility is the use of extension handles on the rollers so that you can paint the ceiling while standing on the floor. should you do so, remember that you will avoid a stiff neck if you paint the ceiling area ahead of you rather than directly overhead
do not overload the roller or apply too much pressure
and whether using a roller or brush, always paint from a dry area into a wet one, overlapping slightly
(editor's note: the author is editor in chief of greenhouses for living, an annual buyer's guide to residential sunspaces
a sunspace can transform an ordinary room into an attractive, bright living space. it can also serve as a source of solar heat for your home and a place in which you can garden the year 'round
basically, a sunspace is a light-frame enclosure made of several components, including glass or other transparent glazing, aluminum or wood framing, windows, skylights and sliding glass doors. the words greenhouse, sunspace, solarium, and sunroom are used interchangeably to describe this structure
pre-engineered sunspace kits are available in a variety of sizes and styles. many manufacturers offer standard models suitable for most homes, budgets and tastes; a few offer the ability to give you the most exacting custom designs
standard models come in wood or aluminum. they can be further classified by the shape of the eave _ the area where the sunspace roof meets the vertical wall _ which can be either straight or curved
curved eaves have aesthetic and functional importance. from a stylistic point of view, curved glass gives you an unobstructed view normally interrupted by the roof edge in a straight eave sunspace. functionally, the curved eave is an aerodynamic shape, making it more resistant to air leaks during high winds. less air infiltration means an overall higher energy efficiency
the greenhouse kits available on the market provide a variety of standard options including: a range of glazing materials; insulated panels for the roof, endwalls and the basewall of the sunspace; operable glazed units; movable insulation and shading systems; thermostatically controlled ventilation systems; and thermal storage accessories
new technologies and a range of services and components make it a greenhouse shopper's paradise these days. there are also a variety of handbooks and solar construction manuals that offer guidance on ``do-it-yourself'' sunspace retrofits, using conventional building materials and off-the-shelf components. however, it is recommended that an architect, engineer or builder be consulted before you undertake any major alterations of your home
there are four major factors that will decide the sunspace right for you: location, use, size and cost
when planning your sunspace, start with the factor by which you are most constrained, and go from there. for example, if there is only one feasible spot for an addition to your house, then location will be the overriding factor. this will in turn affect the use of your sunspace; for example, the degree to which this location is facing south will limit your use of this addition as a solar heater
beside increasing the overall value of your home, a solarium can be a great solar heater. in order to take the best advantage of this asset, the greenhouse glass should face true south. however, you can build a solarium facing as much as 45 degrees to the east or west of south and suffer only a 20 percent loss of winter sunshine
if you have several places on your south-facing wall where your solarium can be located, there are other considerations which will help you determine the best solar heater location. if your house is l- or u-shaped, try to locate the sunspace so that it is sheltered within this shape, to limit the heat loss through the endwalls of the sunspace
while today's sunspaces usually perform one of three basic functions _ growing plants, solar heating, or providing shelter _ the shelter aspects are probably the most intriguing. the sunspace provides an attractive and sunlit living space that can house a myriad of activities
most sunspaces serve several purposes. during the day, for example, a sunspace may have the dual function of collecting and storing heat while also providing a place to grow plants. in the evening, you and your family may enjoy it as an informal space
the warming sunshine streaming into your sunspace at certain times can overheat the room and create a costly additional load on your air conditioning system. shading is one of the best solutions to this problem. the materials you select to shade your windows should be styled to fit the design scheme of your home, but must also perform well under the additional heat and light to which they will be exposed in your sunspace. although most conventional window treatments such as draperies, blinds or shutters can be designed for your sunspace, the best protection will come from those systems that prevent the sun from ever reaching the glass. these systems include exterior awnings and sunscreens
interior shading systems are most effective if they incorporate a good solar-reflecting surface material on the exterior side. this principle can be applied to traditional fabric shades, blinds, shutters and drapes
insulated shades are a relatively new development in shading systems, designed to prevent heat loss in winter and at night and also used to reduce summer heat gain. the shades are composed of reflective liners, insulating batting and a decorative interior covering. hardware includes an edge sealing system which dramatically cuts air leakage. interior thermal shades are easier to operate and maintain than movable exterior insulation and are available with motorized and sun sensor controls
people with solariums and greenhouses can be happier and healthier than those who don't have a steady supply of outdoor light, says a physiologist who is also a greenhouse franchisee
natural daylight is a very beneficial `drug-less' therapy for conditions ranging from gloomy moods on cloudy days to colds, muscular aches and pains and even, in some cases, migraine headaches,'' says ken bondi. he operates a four seasons greenhouses center in norwich, conn
natural light also provides a healthful environment for people who exercise at home,'' he says. ``doing aerobics or lifting weights in a solarium or greenhouse addition lets you exercise `outdoors' while staying inside your home.''
americans are spending more than $400 million a year to 40,000 new sunspaces on their homes, according to lee stanley, chairman of solar additions inc., of greenwich, n.y. he predicts it will grow to between $1 billion and $2 billion in the 1990s
the sunspace has evolved from a greenhouse for indoor plant growing into a room central to modern homemaking,'' says stanley. ``today people are adding sunspaces for kitchens which once again have become a major focus for homemakers
people are even specifying room add-ons as bathrooms.''
if you are remodeling your kitchen and thinking about putting in new cabinets, you might want to consider giving your old ones a facelift instead. as a do-it-yourself project, it can save you money and at the same time get the quality look that you want
a newly introduced solid oak kitchen cabinet refacing system packages contemporary-styled solid oak cabinet doors, drawer fronts and matching peel-and-stick oak veneer into a step-by-step procedure designed especially for the do-it-yourselfer and one that requires no special tools or carpentry skills
the system offers a variety of cabinet doors and drawer fronts to accommodate almost any kitchen cabinet you might have. cabinet doors and drawer fronts both are three-quarters of an inch thick, with door fronts available in two panel styles. cabinet fronts come in nine standard door sizes; drawer fronts are available in three sizes. non-standard door sizes can be adjusted using framing strips. the refacing system also includes matching peel-and-stick oak veneer for application over all front cabinet frame surfaces and exposed ends. the veneer features specially formulated pressure-sensitive adhesive to provide easy application as well as durability
the refacing process is a four-step procedure that anyone with basic do-it-yourself skills can perform. installing cabinet doors and applying the matching veneer is done as follows:
1. remove all old cabinet doors, hinges and catches
2. match pre-selected doors with the appropriate cabinet door openings
3. apply peel-and-stick oak veneer over all old face frames and exposed side panels
4. apply the finish, add new hardware and complete the installation of the doors
installing new drawer fronts involves a similar four-step procedure:
1. remove all drawers from cabinets and take off all handles, knobs or raised moldings. it is not necessary to remove the existing drawer fronts themselves because the new solid oak ones mount over the old ones. the replacement drawer fronts come in three sizes which will accommodate nearly all drawer sizes
2. using a hand saw, cut off any lip or overhang on your existing drawer fronts so that they are flush with the sides, top and bottom of the drawer
3. line up the new drawer front so that it centers over the trimmed drawer and covers the drawer opening completely
4. apply the finish, then, from the face side of the new drawer front, drill holes so you can attach new drawer handles. in most instances the screws used to attach the handles will be adequate to secure the new drawer front in place. complete the installation of the drawer fronts
according to masonite corp., which handles the refacing system, the average kitchen is composed of 15 cabinet doors and 11 drawer fronts which take between 16 to 24 hours to reface and finish
for the relatively few hours involved, refacing may be the answer for the do-it-yourself enthusiast. another advantage is less disruption to the normal everyday use of your kitchen. while you are refacing your cabinets, you still have the use of them, and avoid the mess that comes when you tear out your old ones and replace with new ones
most of the time we don't do anything about the roof on the house until it does something to us
when there is a leak or storm damage, we move into action, hiring a professional or attempting a do-it-yourself repair. but when a roof needs replacement, the pro gets the call
putting down a new roof not only requires knowledge and skill, it needs the attention of someone who knows how to move about safely on high ladders and sloped surfaces
one way a homeowner can aid his cause is to keep minor damage from becoming major. check the roof periodically, a couple of times a year or more often when there is a reason for such an examination. the check is especially important if the roof is more than 15 years old. that's the time when a house is a prime candidate for reroofing, although the life expectancy of a roof can be longer than that if top materials are used
remember that the cost of labor and application is often the same, regardless of the projected life of the roof
checking the roof does not involve getting on it. you can do it from the ground with the aid of binoculars. look for signs of wind damage. cracked, curled, loose or missing shingles spell trouble. an excessive loss of granules from the shingles is a sign of wear. even if you know very little about roofs, common sense will tell you when something doesn't look right
resist the temptation to get on the roof to check at close range. leave that kind of inspection to a roofer
since you are at the mercy of a roofing contractor to find out what is wrong and whether it can be fixed or replaced, find one who comes well recommended. if you are told your roof needs replacing, get more than one opinion on the problem and what it will cost to solve it. be sure all contractors are bidding on the same plans and materials
before signing a contract, be certain it specifies the work to be done and materials to be used, completion dates, warranties and guarantees of both the contractor and manufacturer, removal of waste materials, final price and method of payment
among available roof coverings, asphalt shingles are the most widely used roof material. they are attractive, economical by comparison, and durable. there are endless varieties, among them the glass-based, three-dimensional, multi-layered, textured and other types. there is roll roofing for roofs with little pitch, built-up roofing, aluminum shingles, wood shingles and concrete and ceramic tiles, as well as slate and terne
your roofer must decide whether your new roof can be applied directly over the old one. in most cases, asphalt shingles can be laid over asphalt and wood shingles. and some ordinances forbid reroofing over two or more layers of shingles. no matter what the regulations, your roofer has to determine whether your roof deck can support another set of shingles
a new roof should require only minimal maintenance. but keep gutters, downspouts and roof surfaces clear of leaves, twigs and other litter so that water will drain freely and not back up
never allow water from one roof portion to pour directly on to another
keep trees trimmed to prevent branches from scuffing or other damaging the roof
and, for your sake, as well as that of the roof, stay off it
chain saws have become familiar workhorses around the home as homeowners use them to cut firewood and roots, clear storm damage and trim trees and large shrubbery. but many chain saw owners do not know how to take care of them properly and can end up with costly repair bills
a chain saw owner needs to perform an annual maintenance check to ensure trouble-free operation. solo inc. experts have developed a 10-step maintenance checklist that can be performed with a few standard tools and a little spare time
you are advised to check the owner's manual for specific maintenance instructions and to perform the procedures during the ``off'' season. for safety reasons, always wear gloves and safety glasses when following these steps in maintaining your chain saw:
1. drain any remaining fuel from the saw's tank or run the engine until it is empty
2. using a garden hose, clean the entire unit while being careful not to get water into the gas tank
3. remove and clean saw chain, bar and guide bar. don't forget to wear gloves
4. remove spark plug and replace it with a new one every year. be sure to set the correct spark plug gap
5. close the choke and remove the air filter assembly. clean the filter with a stiff paint brush and soap and water or replace it if necessary
6. remove the fuel cap, locate the fuel pick-line inside the tank and ``fish'' it out. you may want to use an 8-inch piece of coat hanger that has a ``u'' bend at one end. replace line or filter if dirty and put cap back on the tank
7. use an allen wrench or screwdriver to remove the starter assembly. clean filter openings with a rag or brush, remove debris and replace any worn parts
8. visually inspect all vibration isolators to be sure they are not worn out, torn, cracked, broken or loose. check manual for exact locations of isolators
9. check spark plugs arrestor screen for buildup and clean or replace if rips or performations are present. clean with water or a wooden ``pop'' stick, making sure not to tear holes in the filter
10. with gloves on, grasp muffler to check that it is not loose and does not rattle. replace if necessary
when finished, double check to make sure all parts have been properly replaced, all screws and bolts have been tightened and there are no pieces left over
keeping kitchen knives razor sharp and in mint condition is an art. with practice and patience, most people can master traditional techniques, but modern technology also offers simpler and more effective solutions to a drawer full of dull blades
however you choose to sharpen your knives, do it frequently, rather than once or twice a year,'' says chef lou bouchenot, gourmet and cooking instructor. ``in fact, for maximum effectiveness, knives should be sharpened after every use.''
the most popular tool for reviving dull knives is the butcher's or sharpening steel. it is relatively easy to use, but does not actually sharpen a blade. instead, it realigns the bent fibers of the blade and evens out the edge where they have broken off
the safest way to ``steel'' a blade is by grasping the knife in one hand and holding the steel perpendicular to a cutting board with the other. then, position the heel of the blade _ the part closest to the handle _ at a 20-degree angle to the rod of the steel just below the handle
with a quick swinging motion, bring the knife down and across the steel until the tip reaches the bottom. repeat the process with the other side of the blade. about six strokes on each side should complete the job
the trick to steeling is maintaining the proper angle and using a consistent amount of pressure throughout the process,'' says buchenot, culinary consultant to wilkinson sword, inc. ``if you don't, the edge will be uneven and perhaps too dull or so sharp that it will wear away quickly.''
an easier and more convenient alternative is a set of self-sharpening knives, which contains its own automatic sharpening cassettes and, unlike a steel, actually puts a new edge on a knife. each knife's individual storage compartment contains one of these cassettes so that knives are automatically sharpened before and after each use
the cassette works similarly to many popular sharpening tools, but eliminates all the guesswork. it houses two angled tungsten-carbide sharpening blocks and is scientifically engineered to hold the blade at the correct angle as it is sharpened. a spring-load mechanism insures consistent pressure throughout the process. sharpening takes place with one smooth continuous motion, ensuring an even edge. the knives are dishwasher-safe and virtually maintenance-free. sharpening cassettes, however, may be removed from the unit and should be washed occasionally to remove any debris
however, if you are a die-hard do-it-yourselfer, you can try your hand at giving traditional knives a new edge yourself with a whetstone
use a medium grade stone to start and finish with a finer grade. lubricate each with honing oil or a half-and-half mixture of machine oil and kerosene
to sharpen, place the whetstone on a flat surface and hold the blade at one end of the stone at a 20-degree angle to its surface. with one smooth motion, bring the blade diagonally across the stone to the opposite end, gradually shifting pressure from the heel to tip of the blade
turn the blade over and repeat the process starting at the other end of the stone. continue with alternating sides until sharpened
again, maintaining the correct angle and applying consistent pressure is important,'' says bouchenot
removing old wallpaper before a refinishing project can be done quicker and easier with a variable temperature control heat gun
here are some tips from harry w. earl, brand manager for emhart corp.'s thermostrip:
_ moisten a section of the old wallpaper with water
_ set the heat gun at full power, holding the nozzle three inches from the wall and direct the hot air at a seam
_ as adhesive begins to soften, gently loosen the paper with a scraper, then peel off
_ continue moistening the wallpaper throughout the process
the federal home loan mortgage corp. has announced it will begin purchasing a new type of adjustable rate mortgage which allows home buyers to convert their loans to fixed-rate mortgages
these convertible mortgages have become popular with home buyers because they offer the advantage of lower initial rates along with the chance to convert to fixed-rate mortgages later if rates drop
the action was announced by leland brendsel, president of the corporation, which is popularly known as freddie mac. it follows a decision by the federal national mortgage association, known as fannie mae, to purchase convertible mortgages as well
the two organizations, which purchase mortgages from local lenders, have a major impact on what will be available to home buyers because local lenders generally follow their guidelines in order to insure that their mortgages can be resold in the secondary market
the freddie mac announcement said it would buy convertible mortgages with rates that adjust yearly with caps of 1 percent to 2 percent on the amount interest rates can change in a single year
the convertible mortgages must also offer homeowners the option of switching from an adjustable-rate mortgage to a fixed rate from the beginning of the first year of the mortgage to the end of the sixth year
baths and kitchens top the list of rooms that homeowners choose to remodel, says the national kitchen and bath association, which projects that nearly 10 million consumers will replace one of those rooms in 1988
more than 5.5 million kitchens were remodeled last year, according to the association
both rooms have a high return on investment when it comes time to sell a home,'' says francis jones, executive director of the trade group
other reasons for what he says is a 14 percent increase over last year in the number of people remodeling those rooms include more discretionary income and a trend toward staying home. ``a good portion of that income is going into home improvements, particularly the kitchen and bath,'' he says
consumers want all the options _ whirlpool tubs, steam features in their showers, ranges with grill features, wine coolers.''
the kitchen, in particular, may be becoming more personalized, say kitchen designers, who see it as a ``family activity center.''
kitchens are expanding by combining several adjacent family areas, often spilling over into the great room,'' says david hundley, marketing manager for wilsonart, producers of decorative laminate surfacing. ``kitchens are no longer used just for cooking, but have become areas to socialize, do the laundry, sew or work at the home computer.''
kitchens are becoming more practical, says a designer, incorporating several areas into the same space
the laundry room might be a part of the kitchen, concealed behind doors, a desk area for the family computer, a baking center equipped with storage space for bulky mixing tools hidden behind tambour garages, an area for potting plants, a place to barbecue or even sew,'' says gay fly, president of gay fly interiors, houston
among the more popular remodeling plans for kitchens are those that remove the walls between the kitchen and family room, allowing plenty of space for socializing, according to richard m. rozic, vice president of builder sales for white consolidated industries, appliance manufacturers
the bathroom, too, is getting more remodeling attention, according to many manufacturers and designers
some designers now consider the room a ``stress reduction center,'' complete with exercise equipment, sauna, whirlpool and television set
oversized and two-person showers designed with multi-showerheads and controls are popular. large closets and utility areas are also showing up,'' says designer fly
everything is designed to accommodate more than one person in the bathroom.''
the use of vinyl for window frames is growing as an alternative to aluminum and wood for home repair and remodeling in the united states, according to a trade association which says its product has grown about 20 percent annually over the last five years
vinyl window frames account for almost a quarter of the 22.5 million replacement windows installed in american homes annually, says julie cahn, executive director of the vinyl window and door institute
some newer replacement windows are combining wood and solid vinyl or aluminum
there's been a design revolution going on the past decade within the window industry,'' says k. eric ekstrom, of the national wood window and door association
what's more, consumers are learning all they can about new product designs and performance improvements,'' he says. ``new design innovations and tougher manufacturing standards have helped wood windows, or vinly- and aluminum-clad windows with solid wood cores, remain one of the most popular materials for replacement projects.''
finding a chip, gouge or hole on a piece of furniture does not mean it's ruined. damaged furniture can be restored with a patching material made just for wood
most furniture will receive some damage with heavy use. chances are that furniture bought at a yard sale or auction will have at least one chip or gouge
restoring furniture is simple, rewarding, and saves money on professional repair bills. the trick is knowing what materials to use and how to do the work
for your repair work, a premixed, synthetic compound gives good results. one kind is made of latex and pulverized wood for a patch of maximum workability and woodlike texture
for generations, cabinet-makers made their own patching material by mixing hot animal glue or vinyl resin with fine sawdust. some purists still make their own wood patch, substituting woodworkers glue for animal glue
synthetic latex compounds are easy to use. you apply them from the container with a putty knife, or directly into voids from a plastic squeeze tube. they can be nailed, sawed, sanded or drilled, and can be used for repairs both indoors and out
patching damaged furniture, whether unfinished, painted or stained, is easy enough for any do-it-yourselfer
first, to remove dirt, grease, oil and loose particles from the damaged area, rub the surface with a lint-free cloth dampened with mineral spirits, paint thinner, or a liquid sander
wait 30 minutes for the surface to dry, then dampen the area to be repaired with water. water stops the wood from absorbing moisture in the latex wood patch. otherwise, the patching material cures too quickly and might shrink and crack
john molski, technical director of united gilsonite laboratories, scranton, pa., offers these tips for using a latex wood putty:
press the patching material tightly into the void with a putty knife. fill holes that are less than one-quarter inch deep and wide in one application. make sure the patch is slightly higher than the surrounding wood
wipe off the excess material around the hole with a dampened cloth. when the patch is dry, sand it until it's level with the surrounding surface.''
holes more than one-quarter inch deep and wide, molski says, should be filled with several layers of patch. let each layer dry befre applying the next
sand the repair, using medium-grade sandpaper attached to a sanding block. failure to use a sanding block can result in ripples on the patch and surrounding wood. this is especially true when sanding softwoods like pine
always sand with the wood grain. when done, wipe the surface with a tack cloth or clean rag dampened with mineral spirits to remove dust
the drying time for wood patching products differs. read the label before sanding, painting or staining
follow normal surface preparations before refinishing the damaged area
a refinishing tip: to improve the color match between the latex patch and the wood, mix some finish with the patching material before repairing the damage. test the patch on an inconspicuous part of the wood _ the underside of a table, for instance _ to see if it blends with the original finish
if you have trouble matching the patch with a stained surface, mix a combination of maple, mahogany and walnut stain with the patching compond. with a little work, you can match almost any stain using these three colors
do not confuse wood patching products with paste wood fillers. the fillers are designed for filling the open grains in certain hardwoods like oak, mahogany and walnut prior to finishing
hiding minor scratches does not require the use of a wood patch. for a simple fix, rub a wet tea bag or shoe polish on the scratch. specially designed wax sticks can also be used. they are available in different colors
if you're looking for the country look, repair major damage such as broken legs or rotted wood, but leave surface blemishes and minor scratches alone. these random markings give the piece its character
with warm weather coming, wood furniture and fixtures will need special care, advises wood care authority homer formsby
he offers these tips:
_ to protect your furniture from the strong summer sun, keep furniture away from direct sunlight and rearrange your furniture so that one piece doesn't receive all the exposure. install drapes or shades that can be drawn during the sun's strongest hours
_ to protect furniture from high humidity, regularly apply a furniture treatment (not a furniture polish) to replace the wood's natural moisture. (don't use linseed oil on wood, since it can darken, mildew and let off an unpleasant odor
_ to protect furniture from summer dirt and dust, ``deep clean'' the wood by wiping the surface with mineral spirits or furniture cleaner on a cotton cloth, repeating until the cloth remains clean. once the wood is thoroughly cleaned, regular use of a furniture treatment will clean everyday dirt and pollution
_ avoid sitting on wood furniture in a wet bathing suit; the moisture can become trapped and leave white spots. to repair the spots, first let the furniture sit for 24 hours to see if the moisture evaporates on its own. if it doesn't, buff the area with a 50-50 mixture of toothpaste and baking soda on a damp cotton cloth
the abcs of home insulation usually come down to r
the letter stands for resistance to heat flow _ heat gain in the summer and heat loss in the winter. the higher the ``r-value'' of the insulation, the greater the insulating power
determining what r-value is most effective in your home depends on the region and fuel sources. for example, in kansas city, mo., if you're insulating your attic and the energy source is natural gas, a minimum r-value of 30 is recommended by the department of energy
critical areas to be insulated include walls between heated and unheated areas, basement walls, floors above unheated crawl spaces and masonry walls in heated crawl spaces
installing insulation is a relatively simple and inexpensive do-it-yourself project,'' says thomas seymour of owens-corning fiberglas corp. ``one of the most common homeowner projects, insulating the attic, only costs about $300 to $350 for an average 1,000-square-foot space,'' he says
to insulate your attic,'' seymour says, ``the only tools you'll need are a sharp knife, a straight-edge, a measuring tape, a long-sleeved shirt, a mask, a pair of work gloves and safety glasses. installation is simply a matter of measuring the area to be insulated, cutting the material to fit and laying between the joists or studs.''
the most common types of insulation are fiberglass batts and blankets, loose-fill, blown-in urethane foam, and rigid-board
fiberglass batt and blanket insulation are the same material packaged differently. batts are precut in floor-to-ceiling lengths, and blankets come in rolls that must be cut to length
loose-fill insulation is made of fiberglass, rock wool, vermiculite or other mineral products that are either poured or blown into place with a high-pressure air nozzle
according to better homes and gardens building ideas magazine, the advantage of loose-fill is that it seals around plumbing pipes and electrical wires and outlets and it can be blown into place without tearing out walls. but, the magazine notes, loose-fill tends to settle and compress over time and can lead to voids in the tops of wall cavities
settlement is not a problem with foams, but shrinkage can affect the foam's airtightness, building ideas says
home workshops most often are in basements or garages, probably the poorest lit areas of the house
a combination of background and task lighting can alleviate the problem and free the work space of glare and shadows, says jim jensen, technical lighting specialist at general electric
he recommends two 48-inch fluorescent tubes centered over the front edge of the work bench, 48 inches above the work area
for extra lighting for detail work, jensen advises supplementary spotlighting. ``a lamp with a 50-watt reflector bulb, for example, can be clamped near task areas, like vises or drill presses,'' he says. ``clamp-on fixtures are ideal for the workshop because they allow you to move the light to areas where it is most needed.''
power tools make do-it-yourselfing easier and faster, but every homeowner knows how impossible it is to take care of things around the house without various kinds of hand tools
for most purposes, you can get along without an electrical saw or a belt sander, but here are countless household tasks that cannot be handled without a screwdriver or hammer or wrench or pliers
whether you have an organized home workshop or merely a collection of tools that grew each time an emergency occurred, you know well the value of non-electric implements
there are some things you should keep in mind when hand tools are purchased and used. here are a few of them:
_ hammers: a 16-ounce nail hammer is best for the novice, but it should not be used for masonry nails, cold chisels or other metal. for striking the very small hand chisels and punches and for riveting, shaping and straightening unhardened metal, use a 16-ounce ball peen hammer. a three-pound so-called drilling hammer of plastic, rubber, wood or rawhide is needed if you work with surfaces that could be damaged by a metal striking face
_ screwdrivers: you will need several screwdrivers of different sizes. while they should be of the standard slotted type, it is well to own at least one phillips screwdriver, which works with cross-slotted screwheads. when possible, buy a set of screwdrivers rather than one
_ wrenches: if you can get only one, make it an adjustable type, which has smooth jaws and fits different kinds of nuts. but it is not intended to replace fixed opening wrenches for many jobs. for instance, never use an adjustable wrench to free a ``frozen'' nut or for final tightening. a wrench should be tightly adjusted to the nut and pulled _ never pushed _ so the force is on the side of the fixed jaw. never use an extension or a hammer on any wrench handle
_ pliers: slipjoint pliers are what you should have if you have only a small collection of hand tools. their joints allow the jaws to be adjusted to two positions. later, you can buy some of many specialty pliers on the market. _ saws: the crosscut saw is the one you will use most. backsaws are for precision work. hacksaws are for metal. very useful is a ``nest'' of saws, which has three narrow blades interchangeable on one handle. two of the blades are known as keyhold saws, the third is for general cutting
_ chisels: wood chisels are, as the name implies, for use on wood. cold chisels are designed for use on metal and usually are driven with a heavy hammer
_ planes: a jack plane is the most common. it is 12 to 15 inches long and handles most jobs
_ files: the 12-inch size, with second-cut or smooth-cut teeth, is the all-purpose file. files come in many varieties, but the type used on wood is called a rasp
there are, of course, many other hand tools, but you will find out about these when you have a need for them. in all cases, follow the rules of safety. whenever practical, use workman's gloves. always wear goggles or some other kind of eye protector when working with metal or doing anything which may cause chips to fly
and remember that dull tools cause more accidents than sharp ones
housing construction for 1987 dropped to 1.62 million units, the slowest building pace for the housing industry since the recession year of 1982, the commerce department reported
the total compared to construction of 1.81 million units in 1986, which had been an exceptionally strong year for the industry. in 1982, 1.06 million units were built
analysts blamed much of the weakness on widespread overbuilding in the apartment sector and the adverse effects of the new tax law on real estate investments
building permits for the year totaled 1.54 million units, 13.1 percent below 1986 and the weakest showing since 1982
sales of new homes in 1987 fell 10.1 percent below the 1986 level, the government has reported. the commerce department said that sales totaled 674,000 units, compared with sales of 750,000 units in 1986
how-to videotapes, for rent or sale, are available in many home centers, hardware stores and lumber yards and some libraries and video stores. brands include hometime, wally's workshop, ortho and the diy show
hometime, of eden prairie, minn., has 27 titles for under $10 each. (chevrolet trucks has underwritten the productions in return for a commercial on each tape
new titles from hometime include ``plumbing'' (how to plan for and install a new bathroom), ``furniture refinishing'' (including stripping), and ``lighting'' (indoor and outdoor projects)
sales of existing homes held steady in 1987 at close to 4 million units despite volatile mortgage rates and the october stock market collapse, a national real estate trade group reported
the national association of realtors said that sales of existing single-family homes and condominiums totaled 3.885 million units last year, down a slight 0.3 percent from the 1986 level of 3.897 million units. sales in both years were the fastest pace of this decade
meanwhile, the average price of an existing home rose to a nationwide median of $84,900, an increase of 5.1 percent in 1987, slightly ahead of the rise in consumer prices, the association said
when the tip of a screwdriver needs squaring, clamp it in a vise. file so that the tool does not rock, otherwise you will not get a straight blade tip. always file away from yourself
if it becomes necessary to loosen a window that won't budge, don't use a screwdriver blade between the window and the frame. instead, hold a putty knife as flat as you can get it and tap the handle gently with a light hammer. the screwdriver may work all right, but it will leave gouges in the wood
lacquer thinner is the solvent for lacquer, denatured alcohol for shellac, and turpentine or mineral spirits for oil-based finishes. despite this general rule, read the instructions on the label to determine what the solvent is for the particular product
when you use a wrench or pliers on a kitchen fixture, put adhesive tape or something similar on the nut to keep it from getting chewed up
always buy a hand tool by picking it up and going through the motions of using it. the ``feel'' of the tool is important. if it doesn't seem right, it will be even more uncomfortable when put into actual use
a cheap tool remains a cheap tool through its lifetime. buying the least expensive tool you can find is usually poor economy. not only won't it last as long as the good one, it will never give you a fine performance, even at the start
accidents occur on extension ladders because people insist on overreaching, mostly so they don't have to move the ladder so much. don't be a casualty of that sort of thinking. get down and move the ladder as often as necessary to keep you from stretching
never strike anything with the side or cheek of a hammer
tinner's snips are used for cutting light sheet metal. larger snips for cutting heavier metal are referred to as shears. when snips are used for cutting hardened metal _ rather than soft _ the cutting edges will be damaged
early american indians quarried natural sharpening stones for use on the tips of spears and arrows
a pushbroom is excellent for spreading blacktop sealer on a driveway
in a poll conducted at the 1988 national association of home builders convention in dallas, performance and durability were ranked as the most important qualities to seek in the purchase of power tools
ease of use ranked third, followed by warranties, price and available accessories. when builders were asked to name the first three types of power tools do-it-yourselfers should buy, they chose the circular saw, power drills and miter saw. after that, in order, came the radial arm saw, belt sander, pad sander, router and planer
the poll was conducted by ryobi american corp., bensenville, ill
talks between pan am corp. and the 4,500-member union representing reservation clerks broke off. the teamsters union vowed to disrupt operations through ``guerrilla warfare'' but put off any strike
pan am officials said sunday that airline service would continue without interruption even if there eventually is a walkout, and threatened to discipline any workers disrupting service
but the federal mediator involved in the negotiations said he was optimistic the two sides would return to the bargaining table
a wall street speculator has been charged with weapons possession and witness intimidation after authorities alleged he plotted an attack on convicted financier ivan f. boesky
the arrest of john a. mulheren, once a close associated of boesky, marked the first public indication of potential violence in the insider trading scandal
mulheren, a general partner in the firm jamie securities co., was arrested in possession of an israeli-made semi-automatic rifle. he was ordered held in lieu of $17,500 after a hearing friday
polaroid corp. said it has asked a federal court for $5.7 billion in damages from the eastman kodak co., which was found in 1985 to have infringed on polaroid patents in the instant photography market
the request made friday marks the latest development in a 12-year-old case that forced kodak out of its $200 million-a-year instant photography business. a hearing is set for march 18 but a trial date has not yet been set
wall street sent texaco inc.'s stock smartly higher following word that t. boone pickens was seeking permission to buy at least 15 percent of the beleaguered oil giant, a stake similar to that already held by fellow corporate raider carl c. icahn
texaco, which has been reorganizing itself as it prepares to emerge from chapter 11 bankruptcy protection, has been fighting efforts by icahn _ its largest shareholder _ to strip the company of its anti-takeover defenses
company officials have feared that icahn or another raider would try to take the company over and sell its assets to boost the value of their stock. texaco stock closed friday at $42.62{ per share, up $1.87{
gillette co. said it would resist coniston partners' attempt to place four representatives on its board of directors, setting the stage for a battle that analysts say could end gillette's lengthy fight to remain independent
coniston, which controls a roughly 6 percent stake in the consumer products maker, stated in a securities and exchange commission filing friday that it intended to nominate four candidates for the board seats up for election at gillette's annual meeting in april.   
the national broadcasting co. said it had tentatively agreed to sell five radio stations to emmis broadcasting corp., a privately-held concern based in indianapolis, for $121.5 million
nbc had previously disclosed it was looking for buyers for its seven radio stations, and reaffirmed friday that it hoped to sell the remaining stations
the stations which would be sold to emmis broadcasting are wnbc-am and wyny-fm in new york, wjib-fm in boston, wkqx-fm in chicago and kyuu-fm in san francisco
president reagan defended his tax and budget policies in an election-year economic report to congress, saying his administration had turned economic despair into hope
reagan's seventh annual economic report issued friday headed off accusations by democratic presidential candidates that a $2.4 trillion national debt and record trade imbalances during the reagan years had hobbled the country and eventually would reduce americans' standard of living
a federal appeals court has stayed a lower court decision that would have cleared the way for a merger creating the nation's largest glass container company
the u.s. court of appeals said friday the stay, which keeps the proposed merger between owens-illinois inc. and brockway inc. on hold, remains in effect until further notice
the merger would make the combined company the largest manufacturer of glass containers in the industry
california regulators are seeking superior court approval to liquidate troubled tmic insurance co., which has been operating under state conservatorship for two years
the problems of tmic, formerly known as ticor mortgage insurance co., stem from the $1.4 billion default of equity programs investment corp., or epic, a virginia-based land syndicator that had acquired 20,000 properties for tax-shelters partnerships
a spokeswoman for california's insurance commissioner said friday the state still hopes an alternative to liquidation can be worked out before an april 6 court hearing
the balance of power in the banking industry has shifted dramatically since the october stock market crash, leaving many of the nation's largest institutions vulnerable to takeovers, a study said
the report released friday by mac group, a cambridge-based financial research firm, rated 19 of the 50 largest u.s. banking institutions as susceptible to takeovers as of the end of last year, compared with just four by sept. 30
ford motor co. workers learned their stake of the automaker's $4.6 billion 1987 profits will average more than $3,700 each when profit-sharing checks are handed out next month
ford officials announced friday that a record $635 million in profit-sharing will be distributed to hourly and salaried workers march 8
in 1987, ford outearned industry-leader general motors corp. for the second consecutive year. while ford workers reap the benefits, gm workers will receive no share of profits for the second straight year
the stock market jumped ahead friday on a late outburst of buying
the dow jones average of 30 industrials climbed 28.18 points to 2,014.59, its highest close since it stood at 2,051.89 on jan. 7. for the past week the average showed a net gain of 31.33
bond prices barely budged. the dollar turned in a mixed performance in foreign exchange, and gold prices rose
in other markets, coffee futures for near-term delivery surged above $1.40 a pound friday for the first time since december 1986. cattle futures advanced sharply, while grains and soybeans, precious metals, energy futures and stock-index futures all moved higher
about 6,000 employees began a strike monday over a pay dispute at land-rover, the first walkout against the state-owned automaker in about six years
it was also the second job action against the british automaking industry this month. production was resuming monday at ford motor co. following a two-week stoppage
about 1,000 workers set up picket lines at the gates of the state-owned land-rover plant at solihull, just outside birmingham in the british midlands
huge traffic jams, some more then a mile long, nearly blocked roads leading to the plant as the pickets stopped supervisors and office workers in their cars and urged them not to cross the picket line
the strike over a pay dispute was the first at the company since november 1981, said a land-rover spokeswoman, speaking anonymously in keeping with british custom
she said the strike would mean the loss of 200 land-rover and range rover vehicles a day, with a retail value of about 3 million pounds, or about $5.25 million
land-rover is a division of rover group, the vehicle manufacturer which the government plans to sell to the private sector. it is separate from the rover group's carmaking division, austin rover
south africa's inflation rate, as measured by consumer prices, slipped to 14.2 percent in january from 14.7 percent in the previous month, the central statistical services said monday
the government attriubted the improvement to a substantial decline in food prices
hyundai motor co. said monday it would continue to sell its cars in canada despite a canadian ruling that the south korean automaker was ``dumping'' its product
hyundai officials also said the automaker will complete an assembly plant, now under construction in bremont, quebec, by early next year as scheduled
they said the plant is to assemble 50,000 cars initially and have a maximum output of 100,000 cars
the department of national revenue of canada last week upheld its earlier ruling that hyundai cars were being ``dumped,'' or sold for less in canada than in south korea
the canadian authorities acted on complaints by the candian subsidiaries of general motors corp.and ford motor co
hyundai officials said they were optimistic that the canada import tribunal would rule in favor of hyundai in reviewing the anti-dumping case by march 20
hyundai officials said hyundai has stopped shipping stellar and pony models to canada and now ships only excel
hyundai marketed 32,985 cars in canada, including 21,118 excels
japanese automakers produced fewer cars, trucks and buses in january over the same period a year ago, the japan automobile manufacturers' association said monday
the group said output totaled 918,348 vehicles, down 2 percent from 1987
last month's decline followed 1.9 percent growth in december, and breaks a string of five consecutive year-on-year rises
a spokesman for the organization said the effects of declining car exports outweighed continued growth in domestic sales
prime minister noboru takeshita said monday that japan won't comply with foreign demands calling for liberalization of rice imports
it was the first time takeshita publicly declared his opposition to lifting a ban on importing foreign rice since becoming prime minister last november
it is natural for us to uphold the objectives of'' a diet resolution calling for improvements in self-sufficiency in food, including rice, takeshita said during a session of the lower house budget committee
both houses of japan's diet unanimously adopted a resolution against the lifting of a rice import ban in 1980 and 1984
the japanese government purchases almost all rice produced by farmers at several times higher than an international price and then sells it to consumers, through retail shops, for somewhat lower prices
the nation's ban on rice imports has become an issue between japan and the united states, which says japan has an obligation to place its rice program on the negotiating table
japan had a trade surplus of $59.8 billion last year with the united states
japanese farmers, agricultural organizations and some government officials argue that opening up the country's rice market would not only harm farmers but endanger japan's food security
korean air said monday that smoking will be banned on all domestic flights beginning next month
airline officials said the ban is in line with a worldwide anti-smoking trend on short-range flights of less than two hours. all of the carrier's domestic flights last less than one hour
the action would not affect korean air's international flights
stock prices held in a narrow range today as traders awaited new signs of the outlook for the economy and interest rates
the dow jones average of 30 industrials dropped 5.64 to 2,008.95 in the first half hour of trading
gainers slightly outnumbered losers in the overall tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 546 up, 501 down and 504 unchanged
volume on the big board came to 28.62 million shares as of 10 a.m. on wall street
analysts said traders were looking ahead to congressional testimony tuesday by alan greenspan, chairman of the federal reserve board
several statistical reports are also due this week on such subjects as durable goods orders, the consumer price index and personal income and consumption
of special interest to wall streeters is the commerce department's revised figure for the gross national product in the fourth quarter of last year, scheduled to be issued thursday
the department earlier estimated gnp growth, after adjustment for inflation, at a 4.2 percent annual rate in the october-december period. many analysts believe the new figure will be higher
economists at smith barney, harris upham &amp; co., for example, say it is possible that the report will show growth of 5.5 percent or more
polaroid rose 1\ to 28} and eastman kodak dropped 1{ to 40}. late friday it was disclosed that polaroid was seeking to recover as much as $5.7 billion from kodak in connection with violations of instant-photography patents
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks slipped .19 to 146.77. at the american stock exchange, the market value index was up .08 at 280.24
on friday the dow jones industrial average jumped 28.18 points to a six-week high of 2,014.59
advancing issues outnumbered declines by more than 2 to 1 on the nyse, with 999 up, 479 down and 469 unchanged. big board volume totaled 180.30 million shares, against 151.43 million in the previous session. a version moving on general news wires.</note>
senate agriculture committee chairman patrick j. leahy is set to raise the curtain on hearings into the problem of hunger plaguing the nation's homeless and families living in poverty
i know that the budget pressures will remain with us all this year and for the foreseeable future,'' the vermont democrat says. ``but america's future depends on its children. the wealthiest, most powerful nation in the world must once again resolve to eliminate hunger in america.''
the hearings, set to begin march 1, will come as the government prepares to suspend distribution of milk, cheese, rice and honey to low-income households under the temporary emergency food assistance program, or tefap, because stocks are depleted
leahy says a report will be released this week dealing specifically with the rural poor and that he intends to follow up with hearings on the overall extent of hunger in america
tefap is best known as the program under which poor people were able to go to community action centers and other designated places in their neighborhoods to receive free allotments of powered milk and cheese
it came into being in 1981 as the reagan administration wrestled with enormous surpluses of agricultural commodities and the massive storage costs they entailed. those huge surpluses have now been diminished considerably by price changes under the 1985 farm law that have discouraged excess production
the agriculture department announced feb. 12 that dwindling stocks will prevent tefap distributions of milk and cheese in may. rice and honey stocks will be depleted by march distributions, usda said. it said flour, cornmeal and butter distributions will continue as before
cheese, nonfat dry milk, rice and honey distributions will be suspended when we have given it all away,'' said john w. bode, assistant secretary of agriculture for food and consumer services. ``when we get more, we will distribute it.''
the department said that one in every seven americans receives federal food assistance at some point each year at a taxpayer cost of more than $56 million a day. it said surplus foods amounting to 5 billion pounds worth more than $5 billion have been distributed under tefap since 1981
according to figures compiled by the senate agriculture committee, more than 15 million people have supplemented benefits they already receive from the food stamp program with tefab commodities
but the panel says the 18 million people who were taking part in the food stamp program as of september represented no more than 60 percent of those living in poverty
leahy said he went to new york last week ``to survey for myself the extent of hunger in our nation's richest city.''
as a senator, i have seen poverty in the third world that was worse than any i have seen in the united states,'' leahy said in a floor speech reporting on his trip. ``but the sense of hopelessness that i encountered in the south bronx was as deep as any that i have encountered in south america.''
he said many families told him they ``cannot buy enough food _ even with food stamps _ to feed their children.'' he quoted christina walker, operator of a food stamp hotline, as saying her organization receives thousands of calls from households that run out of food stamps
that they run out is not surprising,'' he said. ``the average food stamp benefit is around 50 cents, per person, per meal _ the maximum benefit is 81 cents per meal
think about what 81 cents worth of groceries would look like _ not much. what would happen if you spilled a carton of milk _ or dropped a carton of eggs?''
some individuals living in poverty are unable to obtain food stamps because they have no address, he said
he also recounted the experience of a south bronx mother of six whom he identified as gladys who was having difficulty in storing perishables because her refrigerator was broken. he said she tried to keep milk and eggs cold by placing them next to the window but lived in fear that rats would get at them
stock prices showed no clear trend today as traders awaited new signs of the outlook for the economy and interest rates
the dow jones average of 30 industrials dropped 5.80 to 2,008.79 by 11 a.m. on wall street
gainers slightly outnumbered losers in the overall tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 654 up, 615 down and 482 unchanged
volume on the big board came to 52.26 million shares at midmorning
analysts said traders were looking ahead to congressional testimony tuesday by alan greenspan, chairman of the federal reserve board
several statistical reports are also due this week on such subjects as durable goods orders, the consumer price index and personal income and consumption
of special interest to wall streeters is the commerce department's revised figure for the gross national product in the fourth quarter of last year, scheduled to be issued thursday
the department earlier estimated gnp growth, after adjustment for inflation, at a 4.2 percent annual rate in the october-december period. many analysts believe the new figure will be higher
economists at smith barney, harris upham &amp; co., for example, say it is possible that the report will show growth of 5.5 percent or more
polaroid rose 1~ to 29] and eastman kodak dropped 1~ to 40]. late friday it was disclosed that polaroid was seeking to recover as much as $5.7 billion from kodak in connection with violations of instant-photography patents
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks slipped .12 to 146.84. at the american stock exchange, the market value index was up .03 at 280.19
first republicbank corp. ran full-page advertisements in local newspapers today reiterating that it was not involved in merger negotiations and blaming seasonal and anticipated factors for its shrinking deposits
the advertisements seek to reassure depositors of texas' largest bank holding company, which has been plagued by huge losses stemming from its portfolio of troubled loans
during the past few days, there have been several articles and news stories about the current state of our bank,'' the ad stated. ``many of the items reported in these articles have been misleading and some just plain wrong. consequently, we feel it necessary to respond to these reports.''
since first republicbank reported a $656.8 million loss on jan. 19, there have been questions about its ability to weather anticipated losses from its $3.9 billion portfolio of troubled loans
speculation in the financial markets last week sent first republicbank's common and preferred shares tumbling and helped disrupt its system for raising deposits
on sunday, first republicbank chairman gerald w. fronterhouse issued a statement denying the reports. the company ``is not involved in merger or acquisition discussions with anyone. also, we are not aware that the federal deposit insurance corp. is negotiating with any other parties regarding our company.''
he said the fdic had assured first republicbank ``that its policy is to advise the institution before engaging in such negotiations.''
the advertisement addresses three points: merger rumors, deposit safety and deposit activity
there have been several misleading newspaper stories concerning our bank's recent deposit activity,'' the advertisement stated
through mid-february, the corporation's average total deposits have only declined by approximately 4{ percent this year. more than half of the reduction was an expected decline in foreign deposits, with the balance due primarily to normal seasonal factors.''
the bank represents only one-third of the corporation's total deposits, fronterhouse said
the letter encouraged first republicbank customers to call if they had further questions
the chairman of allegheny international inc. says the company will be stronger after it emerges from bankruptcy reorganization because of the strength of its consumer products business
oliver s. travers said two of allegheny international's subsidiaries, sunbeam corp. and almet-lawnlike inc., are profitable and would not have had to file for reorganization were it not for the parent company's complex financial situation
he said that including almet-lawnlike, sunbeam's net worth, or assets minus liabilities, is about $400 million
sunbeam is very healthy, as evidenced by its excellent results for the first four months of this fiscal year and by its strong backlog of orders,'' said travers, chairman since 1986
the pittsburgh-based holding company and some of its subsidiaries, filed saturday in u.s. bankruptcy court for protection from its creditors while it reorganizes. also included in the filing are sunbeam holdings inc. and chemetron corp
greg drahuschak, analyst for butcher &amp; singer, said the filing announcement was ``no horrendous surprise.''
it's probably the best operating move they had, given their credit situation and the need they had for operating capital,'' he said. ``this gets the banks off their backs for a while. unfortunately, the sacrificial lamb in this process is the common shareholder.''
allegheny international said it has lined up fresh financing of $175 million from two major new york banks, travers said. the credit line provides enough cash to run the companies during the reorganization, he said
chapter 11 provides the means to implement corporate restructuring and continue the company's profitable turnaround,'' travers said
the bankruptcy court petition was a key to getting the additional money, said chief operating officer thomas albani
while negotiations with the two banks occurred before the filing, the financing was made afterward. legally, that puts the lenders in a ``superpriority'' position ahead of other creditors, albani said
the total liabilities of the company and its subsidiaries, which include such items as payroll and accounts payable as well as bank debt, are about $845 million. its tangible assets are about $735 million
total debt alone for the parent company and its subsidiaries amounts to $525 million, of which $175 million is in short-term bank loans and $350 million is in various long-term commitments
allegheny international lost about $200 million from 1985 to 1987, largely due to debt incurred through a spree of acquisitions in prior years as well as heavy losses in real estate, gas and oil and credit operations
under a new management team since robert buckley resigned under pressure in 1986, the company has shed 19 subsidiaries and severely cut its corporate overhead
the efforts bore fruit in the first quarter of fiscal 1988, which ended dec. 31, 1987, when the company posted a profit of $7.25 million _ its first in two years
profits from consumer products amounted to $31.5 million in the quarter, compared with $19.2 million for the same period in 1986
the filing does not affect sunbeam corp.'s consumer products operations in canada, mexico, venezuela and peru, according to the company. it also does not affect industrial and high technology companies that allegheny international is in the process of divesting
allegheny international, prior to 1981, was known as allegheny ludlum industries. the company acquired sunbeam corp. that year for $534 million
consumer products manufactured by sunbeam includes small household appliances, electric blankets and barbeque grills. almet-lawnlite manufactures lawn and patio furniture
grain and soybean futures opened mostly higher today on the chicago board of trade
long-range bullish attitudes prevailed in the grain and soybean pits, and little selling pressure surfaced this morning after last friday's steep sell-off just before the close
everybody that needed to get out got out on friday,'' said victor lespinasse, a trader for dean witter reynolds inc. ``now they're all gunning again, coming back for more.''
supportive fundamentals included relatively light farmer selling of grains over the weekend and dry weather in the soybean-growing region of southern brazil, lespinasse said
in early trading, wheat was { cent lower to 1{ cents higher with the contract for delivery in march at $3.22{ a bushel; corn was \ cent lower to 1} cents higher with march at $2.01 a bushel; oats were } cent lower to \ cent higher with march at $1.91 a bushel; soybeans were 1 cent to 3{ cents higher with march at $6.34 a bushel
livestock and meat futures mostly were higher in early trading on the chicago mercantile exchange
live cattle were unchanged to .42 cent higher with april at 73.37 cents a pound; feeder cattle were .20 cent lower to .30 cent higher with march at 83.35 cents a pound; hogs were .05 cent lower to .43 cent higher with april at 44.15 cents a pound; frozen pork bellies were .18 cent to .58 cent higher with february at 53.85 cents a pound
all livestock futures settled higher on friday while frozen pork bellies ended lower
the commodity futures trading commission has notified 22 traders at the chicago board of trade that the cftc staff will recommend civil charges of prearranged and fraudulent trading against them, according to a published report
but some of the traders involved say the trading technique in question is practiced daily on many commodity exchanges and is not prohibited by the exchanges' rules, the wall street journal reported in today's editions
officials at the cftc, the federal agency that regulates futures exchanges, would neither confirm nor deny the report
the only enforcement action the commission will comment on is a publicly filed complaint,'' said kate hathaway, a cftc spokeswoman
the case, reportedly involving trading at the world's biggest market for u.s. treasury bond futures, may be one of the largest single instances of alleged futures trading violations
the journal said the allegations concerned certain trades made in the board of trade's huge treasury bond futures pit in mid-1986. the traders maintained that the type of trading being investigated _ loosely known as a ``ginzie'' trade, where a customer gets two different prices for portions of the same buy or sell order _ is widespread on futures exchanges, the newspaper said
the cftc notifications are part of a procedure designed to give potential defendants a chance to argue to the commission that it should not follow its staff's recommendations
the traders received the notices last wednesday and thrusday and were given two weeks to respond with the written arguments to the cftc, the journal reported
the number of oil and gas rigs working in the united states rose by 10 this week to total 978, baker hughes inc. announced monday
this week's total reflects the number of rigs working as of last friday. a year ago the count was 839, baker hughes stated
the previous week, the rig count had dropped by 18 to total 968. the rig count usually declines during the first few months of the year
houston-based baker hughes, an oil toolmaker, tallies the number of rigs actively exploring for oil, and not rigs producing oil. the rig count is the most widely-watched industry index of drilling activity
hughes tool co., which merged this year with baker international corp. of orange, calif., has kept track of the number of working rigs since 1940
in december 1981, at the height of the oil boom, the count reached a peak with 4,500 active rigs. but in the summer of 1986, the rig count fell to 663 _ the lowest since hughes began compiling figures _ as oil prices plunged to less than $10 per 42-gallon barrel
among the major oil producing states, texas gained 12 rigs this week, followed by kansas, 10; wyoming, three; north dakota, two; and colorado, one
new mexico posted the largest decrease, losing five. ohio and oklahoma lost two each; louisiana and michigan lost one each
foodmaker inc., the operator and franchiser of jack in the box restaurants, will acquire chi-chi's inc., a 200-unit mexican restaurant chain, in a leveraged buyout for about $230 million, the companies announced monday
under the agreement, which has been approved by the boards of both companies, foodmaker will acquire chi-chi's in a $10.15 a share tender offer. the sale was expected to be completed about april 1
we believe it will be an excellent vehicle, along with the jack in the box chain, for growth acceleration and to build stockholder value,'' said jack w. goodall jr., chairman and president of foodmakers
san diego-based foodmaker will finance the acquisition with short-term loans from a group of banks led by wells fargo bank na, goodall said, but foodmaker was confident chi-chi's cash flow would be sufficient to fund the purchase
he also said chi-chi's headquarters would remain in louisville with its current management
we think this transaction, which is not conditioned upon obtaining financing, is in the best interest of our stockholders, and we are pleased that foodmaker intends to continue the growth of chi-chi's and maintain our headquarters in louisville,'' said hal smith, chairman and chief executive of chi-chi's
chi-chi's operates and franchises full-service mexican restuarants. for the six months ended oct. 31, chi-chi's had net income of $6.7 million on revenue of $144.5 million
foodmaker inc., operates and franchises more than 900 jack in the box fast-food restaurants located mainly in the western and southwestern united states
foodmaker had net earnings of $13.9 million in 1987 on revenue of $598 million
stock prices hovered in a narrow range today as traders awaited new signs of the outlook for the economy and interest rates
the dow jones average of 30 industrials dropped 1.16 to 2,013.43 by noontime on wall street
gainers outnumbered losers by about 7 to 5 in the overall tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 778 up, 552 down and 520 unchanged
analysts said traders were looking ahead to congressional testimony tuesday by alan greenspan, chairman of the federal reserve board
several statistical reports are also due this week on such subjects as durable goods orders, the consumer price index and personal income and consumption
of special interest to wall streeters is the commerce department's revised figure for the gross national product in the fourth quarter of last year, scheduled to be issued thursday
the department earlier estimated gnp growth, after adjustment for inflation, at a 4.2 percent annual rate in the october-december period. many analysts believe the new figure will be higher
economists at smith barney, harris upham &amp; co., for example, say it is possible that the report will show growth of 5.5 percent or more
polaroid rose 2\ to 29} and eastman kodak dropped 1} to 40{. late friday it was disclosed that polaroid was seeking to recover as much as $5.7 billion from kodak in connection with violations of instant-photography patents
among other actively traded blue chips, international business machines rose ~ to 114\; exxon [ to 42~, and general electric { to 43}
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks gained .12 to 147.08. at the american stock exchange, the market value index was up .58 at 280.74
volume on the big board came to 73.23 million shares at noontime, against 80.38 million at the same point friday
westinghouse electric corp. has signed a preliminary agreement to merge its transportation business with a subsidiary of west germany's daimler benz, westinghouse announced monday
aeg aktiengesellschaft will own 60 percent and westinghouse 40 percent of the new company, aeg-westinghouse transportation systems. further terms of the agreement were withheld
the westinghouse transportation business employs 850 people and produces mass transit propulsion equipment and automated people movers
aeg is a diversified company with 1987 sales of about $7 billion. its transportation business, aeg railway systems, employs about 2,000 people making propulsion equipment for railway cars and locomotives. it recently introduced people mover products
the joint venture is subject to a definitive agreement and approval from both companies' boards and government regulators. it would include a westinghouse plant in the pittsburgh suburb of west mifflin and aeg plants in los angeles and in the west german cities of west berlin, frankfurt and bretten
the supreme court on monday rejected an appeal by a california investor who said he lost $500,000 because of an insider-trading scheme
the court, without comment, let stand a ruling that excluded john olaques of mill valley, calif., from receiving any money from a $7.8 million settlement of the insider-trading case
the dispute stems from a proposed merger between santa fe international corp. and kuwait petroleum co. in 1981
the securities and exchange commission charged that some traders in santa fe stock and options benefitted illegally from insider information about the deal between sept. 21 and oct. 1, 1981
the defendants in the case agreed to surrender $7.8 million in profits to some 1,900 investors. a federal judge approved the settlement in 1986
olaques challenged the settlement, arguing that he was excluded improperly from recovering $500,000 in losses
the 2nd u.s. circuit court of appeals ruled against him last may. the appeals court upheld a judge's decision that olaques did not qualify for any money from the settlement because his investment took place before the insider trading scheme occurred
the appeals court said olaques was not entitled to intervene in the settlement after it has been approved. he ``should not expect to be able to stand aside and watch others incur the expenses of lengthy litigation and then upset the results of those efforts,'' the appeals court said
olaques said he was hurt by the insider-trading scheme even though he purchased options on sante fe stock before sept. 21, 1981. he said the options did not expire until oct. 6, 1981
the case is olaques vs. sec, 87-769
stock prices showed some spotty gains today as traders awaited new signs of the outlook for the economy and interest rates
the dow jones average of 30 industrials edged up 4.97 to 2,019.56 by 2 p.m. on wall street
gainers outnumbered losers by about 4 to 3 in the overall tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 838 up, 610 down and 481 unchanged
analysts said traders were looking ahead to congressional testimony tuesday by alan greenspan, chairman of the federal reserve board
several statistical reports are also due this week on such subjects as durable goods orders, the consumer price index and personal income and consumption
of special interest to wall streeters is the commerce department's revised figure for the gross national product in the fourth quarter of last year, scheduled to be issued thursday
the department earlier estimated gnp growth, after adjustment for inflation, at a 4.2 percent annual rate in the october-december period. many analysts believe the new figure will be higher
economists at smith barney, harris upham &amp; co., for example, say it is possible that the report will show growth of 5.5 percent or more
polaroid rose 2[ to 29| and eastman kodak dropped 1} to 40{. late friday it was disclosed that polaroid was seeking to recover as much as $5.7 billion from kodak in connection with violations of instant-photography patents
among other actively traded blue chips, international business machines rose ~ to 114\; exxon ] to 43[, and general electric ~ to 44[
allegheny international dropped { to 2~ for a loss of 14.8 percent. over the weekend the company filed for protection under chapter 11 of the federal bankruptcy law
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks gained .43 to 147.39. at the american stock exchange, the market value index was up .79 at 280.95
volume on the big board came to 109.87 million shares with two hours to go
the u.s. dollar fell monday against all major currencies except the canadian dollar in listless european trading
gold prices rose in europe after slipping in hong kong
dealers attributed the dollar's slide mainly to uncertainty over the state of the u.s. economy
while recent reports that the u.s. trade deficit had narrowed had supported the dollar, dealers said there were no new incentives to keep it from falling
in london, the british pound rose to $1.7630 from $1.7505 late friday
in tokyo, the dollar fell to close at 129.95 japanese yen from 130.53 yen on friday. in later trading in london, the dollar slipped to 129.27 yen
other late dollar rates in europe, compared with late rates friday, included: 1.6955 west german marks, down from 1.7075; 1.3930 swiss francs, down from 1.3985; 5.7500 french francs, down from 5.7675; 1.9040 dutch guilders, down from 1.9150; 1,252.25 italian lire, down from 1,257.75, and 1.2738 canadian dollars, up from 1.2702
gold prices rose in thin trading in europe in response to the dollar's weakness, bullion dealers said
in london, the metal rose to $446 a troy ounce from $442.90 late friday. in zurich, gold rose to $446.50 from $443 late friday
earlier, in hong kong, gold fell to $447.12 an ounce from $447.51 saturday
silver bullion rose in london to $6.41 a troy ounce from $6.37 late friday
for the first time, drexel burnham lambert inc. has acknowledged publicly that the staff of the securities and exchange commission has recommended that drexel and some of its employees face civil charges
the investment firm also confirmed it has been under investigation by a federal grand jury
the information is contained in a preliminary prospectus for new america high income fund inc., a new high-yield ``junk bond'' fund being drexel is underwriting. such information routinely is required in prospectuses to warn would-be investors of potential risk
the document describing the fund was dated feb. 16 and mailed to investors last week
it stated drexel had advised the fund about the sec staff recomendations for civil actions against the firm and against some employees ``relating to transactions, some of which may have involved `high yield' bonds.''
no assurance can be given that the results of any such sec action or grand jury investigation will not have an adverse effect on drexel burnham lambert inc. and-or the market for `high yield' bonds, a market in which drexel burnham lambert inc. is an important participant,'' the prospectus said
despite the caveat, sales of the fund apparently were unaffected on friday, its first trading day, when it closed unchanged at $10 per share
steven s. anreder, drexel's chief spokesman, on monday declined to comment outside of the information contained in the prospectus
in january, drexel and several ranking employees _ including junk-bond chief michael milken _ reportedly were informed that the sec staff had decided to recommend charges of violations of security laws
on jan. 27, the wall street journal said the focus of the sec's investigation of drexel involved possible violations of securities laws in corporate takeover situations, particularly ``stock parking'' _ the hiding of true ownership of stock in someone else's name. the practice can be used to evade sec reporting requirements
drexel and the employees have lodged their opposition to the decision with the sec, but the federal agency had not decided whether to proceed, according to the prospectus
the firm previously has acknowledged that an investigation was under way, but it has maintained that no wrongdoing took place
the prospectus says drexel has furnished documents to a federal grand jury in new york, and some employees have appeared before the panel
drexel reportedly has been the object of government scrutiny since the breaking of the scandal surrounding former arbitrager ivan f. boesky, because of the firm's extensive involvement in financing of corporate takeovers involved in the scandal
grain and soybean futures closed mostly lower monday after a late sell-off on the chicago board of trade
a mixed opening was followed by firmer prices across the board, but the gains did not hold up
the decline near the session's end was led by commission-house selling of soybeans and soybean oil, said victor lespinasse, a trader for dean witter reynolds inc
the beans and oil were the two markets that really collapsed, and that collapse pulled everything else down,'' he said
soybean traders closely are watching the large brazilian soybean crop, which is nearly ready to harvest, lespinasse said. weather conditions in brazil will have an increasing impact on u.s. soybean futures as the harvest gets under way
at the close, wheat was { cent lower to 1 cent higher with the contract for delivery in march at $3.22{ a bushel; corn was 1 cent to 2\ cents lower with march at $1.99{ a bushel; oats were unchanged to 1 cent lower with march at $1.90} a bushel; soybeans were 6{ cents lower to 1{ cents higher with march at $6.27 a bushel
monsanto co., a pioneer in the development of synthetic turf for sports fields, said monday that it had sold its astroturf industries inc. subsidiary to a west german company
terms of the sale to balsam sportstattenbau gmbh &amp; co., k.g., of steinhagen, west germany, were not disclosed. astroturf industries will become a wholly-owned subsidiary of balsam and will remain based in dalton, ga., a company spokesman said
monsanto installed the world's first commercially-produced synthetic turf playing surface in the astrodome in houston in 1966. since then, astroturf surfaces have been installed in hundreds of sports stadiums and athletic fields around the world
balsam has offered jobs to ``essentially all'' of the businesses' 100 employees and will keep its management team intact, monsanto group vice president earl n. brasfield said
balsam is the multinational market leader and manufacturer of sports and recreational surfaces, and has been serving as monsanto's european and asia-pacific distributor for astroturf recreational surfaces. it also has other u.s.-based subsidiaries that market and install indoor and outdoor sports floor systems
the agreement gives balsam the rights to the astroturf trademark, but monsanto will continue using the trademark in its doormat business
monsanto spokesman dan bishop said the buyer asked that the annual sales figure for astroturf not be released
but he said astroturf sales amounted to less than one-half of one percent of monsanto's annual sales. monsanto had sales of $7.64 billion in 1987
bishop said the sale was made because astroturf ``was not part of our new strategy.'' the company's primary business is in fibers, plants, resins and specialty chemicals
stock prices pushed ahead today as traders awaited new signs of the outlook for the economy and interest rates
the dow jones average of 30 industrials rose 13.92 to 2,028.51 by 3 p.m. on wall street
gainers outnumbered losers by more than 3 to 2 in the overall tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 918 up, 572 down and 474 unchanged
analysts said traders were looking ahead to congressional testimony tuesday by alan greenspan, chairman of the federal reserve board
several statistical reports are also due this week on such subjects as durable goods orders, the consumer price index and personal income and consumption
of special interest to wall streeters is the commerce department's revised figure for the gross national product in the fourth quarter of last year, scheduled to be issued thursday
the department earlier estimated gnp growth, after adjustment for inflation, at a 4.2 percent annual rate in the october-december period. many analysts believe the new figure will be higher
economists at smith barney, harris upham &amp; co., for example, say it is possible that the report will show growth of 5.5 percent or more
polaroid rose 2\ to 29} and eastman kodak dropped 1| to 40|. late friday it was disclosed that polaroid was seeking to recover as much as $5.7 billion from kodak in connection with violations of instant-photography patents
among other actively traded blue chips, international business machines gained 1{ to 114~; exxon \ to 43, and general electric 1[ to 44]
allegheny international dropped { to 2~ for a loss of 14.8 percent. over the weekend the company filed for protection under chapter 11 of the federal bankruptcy law
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks gained .92 to 147.88. at the american stock exchange, the market value index was up .97 at 281.13
volume on the big board came to 131.66 million shares with an hour to go
the supreme court on monday upheld a ruling that sharply curtails the power of communities to regulate cable television, while raising doubts about the constitutionality of a key federal law governing cable operations
separately, the justices agreed to hear appeals by the reagan administration and coal mining companies trying to block the possible award of billions of dollars in black lung disease benefits to thousands of miners
in the cable television case, the high court cited a lack of jurisdiction in turning away an appeal by palo alto and atherton, calif., which were barred from enforcing public access and other rules challenged by cable operator century federal inc
but the court's action apparently was based on narrow procedural grounds and leaves open the possibility of a subsequent appeal
u.s. district judge eugene f. lynch ruled last september that cable regulations adopted by the two california cities unconstitutionally violated century federal's free-speech rights
the lower court had thrown out regulations requiring the company, among other things, to wire the entire community to make service available to all residents and to use a ``state-of-the-art'' system to keep pace with the latest technological advances
lynch, who previously had ordered city officials to award an operating license to century federal, called for further hearings to study franchise fee requirements adopted by the cities
palo alto and atherton officials said the ruling appears to declare unconstitutional a 1984 federal law regulating cable tv, even though the judge did not say in so many words that he was invalidating the law
the reagan administration, in a ``friend-of-the-court'' legal brief filed by justice department lawyers, urged the high court to deny the cities' appeal
in the case involving black lung disease benefits, the high court said it will review a ruling that the government must reopen some previously rejected claims for benefits
the reagan administration maintains the ruling by the 8th u.s. circuit court of appeals, if extended nationwide, could force officials to re-examine 94,000 claims at potentially tremendous cost to the overburdened fund that pays benefits to miners afflicted with the disease
the lower court had ruled last march that thousands of miners seeking the benefits had been unfairly denied a hearing. the ruling applied to miners with less than 10 years of work in the mines whose claims were denied in the late 1970s and early 1980s
the appeals court said the u.s. department of labor must take a fresh look at the claims under liberalized standards adopted by congress in 1977. the appeals court applied the ruling to miners who failed to exhaust their administrative remedies or who missed deadlines for filing court appeals
in other business-related action monday, the supreme court:
_agreed to study a key affirmative action issue _ the power of local governments to require minority participation in public works projects. the justices will hear an appeal by richmond, va., officials seeking to revive a so-called set-aside program for construction industry businesses owned by minorities
_agreed to decide whether states may tax any income from oil and natural gas extracted from the outer continental shelf. the court said it will hear an appeal by shell oil co. challenging an iowa tax
_agreed to decide whether a 5 percent tax illinois imposes on all telephone calls charged to in-state numbers interferes with interstate commerce. gte sprint communications corp. is involved in the suit
_let stand a ruling that forces ann arbor, mich., officials to justify in federal court a zoning ordinance limiting where adult bookstores may be opened for business
_rejected an appeal by mill valley, calif., investor john olaques who said he lost $500,000 because of an insider-trading scheme. the court let stand a ruling excluding olaques from receiving any money from a $7.8 million settlement of the case, which stems from a proposed merger between santa fe international corp. and kuwait petroleum co. in 1981
the midamerica commodity exchange and first commodity corp. of boston have agreed to a $3.51 million settlement ending all fraud litigation against first commodity, the exchange announced monday
under the agreement, $3.01 million will be paid directly to defrauded customers, whose losses totaled more than $51 million in 1984, the exchange said in a news release
midam will retain first commodity's $500,000 guarantee deposit and the now-defunct firm waived all claim to those funds, the news release stated
midamerica in 1986 found that first commodity had violated exchange rules through its use of promotional materials, fraudulent and misleading sales practices and its withdrawal of guarantee funds on deposit with the exchange
the exchange expelled the company and fined it $3.51 million. first commodity later went out of business
plaintiffs in the class action applaud the midam's efforts and contributions in helping settle the largest reported class action commodity fraud settlement to date,'' said marvin miller, one of the plaintiffs' chicago attorneys
james brooks, general counsel for first commodity, could not be reached to comment immediately on the settlement. an answering service collected requests for comment from the defunct firm
the midam board of directors felt this settlement met all the objectives of the exchange, the futures industry, and the needs of defrauded investors,'' said midamerica president thomas r. donovan
the agreement stipulates that first commodity will pay $3.01 million to a settlement fund to be administered by the federal district court in boston, where investor cases were consolidated
the fund will be used to compensate those investors for some of their losses
the u.s. district court ``has preliminarily approved a settlement class of potentially defrauded fccb customers eligible for compensation. this settlement raises the amount in the fund to a currently estimated $5.3 million,'' the exchange stated
william murschel, an exchange spokesman, said he did not know how many investors were involved, but the release said ``virtually every fccb customer lost money, most of them losing 50-90 percent of their investments
customer out-of-pocket losses in 1984 totaled in excess of $51 million, nearly $30 million of which went to fccb in the form of commissions,'' the exchange said
pan am corp. and the union representing 4,500 ground employees in 14 cities remained in a stalemate monday following the breakup of their talks, and teamster leaders vowed ``guerrilla war'' against the financially troubled airline
travel agents reported that some customers have shunned pan am flights as a result of the conflict, which was sparked after the teamsters' strike deadline passed at 12:01 a.m. sunday
talks in which management was seeking $35 million in concessions from the union broke down sunday afternoon
no negotiating sessions were held monday. the union, which represents reservation clerks and other ground staff, put off a strike. but teamster leaders threatened to use disruptive tactics against pan am, which operates pan american world airways, a northeast corridor air shuttle and other services
labor unrest also escalated at another major u.s. airline. flight attendants at minneapolis-based northwest airlines have voted overwhelmingly to strike this weekend if a contract dispute over wages and benefits is not resolved, a union official said
disclosure of the northwest strike vote came as the two sides readied to resume negotiations for the first time since last month
sources close to pan am, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said they were pessimistic about the prospects for a negotiated resolution of the conflict with the teamsters
we can strike (pan am) any time we want,'' said william genoese, director of the teamsters' airline division. ``we're going to pick our strategic time.''
in the meantime, genoese said, ``there's guerrilla war at all the airports. ... the passengers are really going to suffer in this situation.'' he said the tactics would include deliberately misdirecting baggage and cargo and canceling passengers' reservations
pan am spokeswoman pamela hanlon said there was no evidence so far of such disruptions
the operation is running smoothly,'' hanlon said. ``there is no evidence of any job action of any sort at any station.'' she said ``nothing very dramatic'' had happened at john f. kennedy international airport in new york city, pan am's major hub
the company has said it would maintain operations with replacement workers in the event of a strike. the transport workers union at pan am voted friday not to support a teamsters' strike, and pilots, flight attendants and flight engineers are not expected to honor picket lines
there haven't been any problems whatsoever,'' said archie lenzi, chairman of the pan am pilots union's master executive council, noting that he piloted a flight sunday from san francisco to new york without incident
not all travelers appear to be reassured, however
it's a very bad situation for everybody,'' said david perlman, president of dms travel in midtown manhattan. ``some people are shying away (from pan am flights).''
perlman said his agency has been using double bookings as an insurance technique for customers booked on pan am flights. for passengers taking pan am from kennedy airport to europe on monday night, for example, he also booked them on flights offered by other airlines to the same destinations
i think we have to go on the assumption that if there is a strike, all (pan am) flights will be shut down,'' perlman said
james cammisa, a travel industry consultant, estimates that a threatened strike against an airline generally reduces bookings for the carrier by about 10 percent to 20 percent
any kind of strike threat erodes bookings,'' cammisa said, noting that the same thing has happened with eastern airlines, a subsidiary of giant texas air corp. with a history of labor troubles
the public is very concerned about the turmoil (pan am is) having with their unions,'' said steven hoffenberg, chairman of towers financial corp. the loss of bookings resulting from the conflict, he said, ``is going to be enough to drain the company and put them into bankruptcy.''
towers, a debt-collection and insurance holding company based in new york, has said it intends to launch a takeover bid for pan am, with the teamsters' backing. towers owns about 100,000 pan am shares, out of a total of around 139 million shares outstanding
pan am had a net loss last year of $265.3 million on revenue of $2.9 billion, following a 1986 loss of $462.8 million on revenue of $2.5 billion. the company recently signed agreements on more than $330 million in concessions with the unions representing pilots, flight engineers and flight attendants. pan am also went through a major management shakeup a month ago: its new chairman, thomas g. plaskett, briefly headed continental airlines and also worked at american airlines
the teamsters represent workers at airports in boston, detroit, chicago, seattle, san francisco, san diego, los angeles, honolulu, houston, washington, new york and the florida cities of tampa, orlando and miami. the vast majority of the workers are employed in new york and miami
the stock market staged a strong advance today, extending its recent rally as traders awaited new signs of the outlook for the economy and interest rates
analysts said investors were looking ahead to congressional testimony tuesday by alan greenspan, chairman of the federal reserve board
several statistical reports are also due this week on such subjects as durable goods orders, the consumer price index and personal income and consumption
of special interest to wall streeters is the commerce department's revised figure for the gross national product in the fourth quarter of last year, scheduled to be issued thursday
the department earlier estimated gnp growth, after adjustment for inflation, at a 4.2 percent annual rate in the october-december period. many analysts believe the new figure will be higher
economists at smith barney, harris upham &amp; co., for example, say it is possible that the report will show growth of 5.5 percent or more
steel production rose to 1.942 million tons in the week ended feb. 20, an increase of 4.0 percent from the previous week's 1.867 million tons, the american iron and steel institute reported monday
the industry's production amounted to 90.4 percent of capacity during the week, compared with 86.9 percent in the previous week
estimated figures for the year to date showed production at 13.796 million net tons, a jump of 39.6 percent from the 9.882 million net tons in the previous year. the steel operations of usx corp., the nation's largest steel producer, were shut down by a strike during the first month of 1987
production so far this year used 88.2 percent of capacity, compared with 63.7 percent a year earlier
net tonnage by district for the week ended feb. 20: northeast coast, 275,000; pittsburgh, 206,000; youngstown, 128,000; lake erie, 148,000; detroit, 157,000; chicago, 535,000; midwest, 178,000; southern, 218,000; and western, 97,000
the dow jones average of 30 industrials climbed 25.70 to 2,040.29, hitting a new six-week high for the third straight session
advancing issues outnumbered declines by more than 5 to 2 on the new york stock exchange, with 1,148 up, 420 down and 429 unchanged
big board volume totaled 178.93 million shares, against 180.30 million in the previous session. the nyse's composite index rose 2.00 to 148.96
first republicbank corp. ran full-page advertisements in local newspapers monday blaming shrinking deposits on seasonal factors and foreign withdrawals and repeating denials that it was involved in merger or bailout negotiations
in an open letter to customers, first republicbank stated that recent news reports on the financial condition of the state's largest bank holding company were wrong or misleading
the advertisement was aimed at depositors, whom the company feared might begin withdrawing funds due to the reports because of concerns about deposit safety
during the past few days, there have been several articles and news stories about the current state of our bank,'' the ad says. ``many of the items reported in these articles have been misleading and some just plain wrong. consequently, we feel it necessary to respond to these reports.''
since first republicbank reported a $656.8 million loss jan. 19, rumors have spread about its ability to weather anticipated losses from its $3.9 billion portfolio of troubled loans
speculation spread to financial markets last week, sending first republicbank's common and preferred stocks tumbling and disrupting its system for raising deposits
the bank said in a statement sunday that 88 percent of its funds come from core deposits, gathered through its system of 134 branches and subsidiary banks. at year's end, first republic had $1.93 billion in foreign deposits, representing about 7.5 percent of its funds
total deposits as of dec. 31 were about $24.5 billion, according to spokeswoman martha larsh. assets totaled $33.2 billion, making first republicbank the nation's 14th-largest bank holding company at yearend 1987
first republic stated it lost slightly more than $1.1 billion in deposits since the end of 1987. first republic chairman gerald fronterhouse said about half the withdrawals _ nearly $550 million _ were at the lead dallas bank
through mid-february, the corporation's average total deposits have only declined by approximately 4{ percent this year,'' the company's ad said. ``more than half of the reduction was an expected decline in foreign deposits, with the balance due primarily to normal seasonal factors.''
the wall street journal reported in its monday editions that federal regulators were preparing a possible $4.5 billion rescue
fronterhouse said in the statement issued sunday that the institution was unaware of any efforts by the federal deposit insurance corp. to arrange an assisted merger for the bank holding company, the nation's 13th largest
furthermore, that agency informed us that its policy is to advise the institution before engaging in such negotiations,'' fronterhouse said
an fdic official said the agency ``would be less than responsible'' if it didn't prepare contingency plans for a troubled bank
first republicbank's ad also addressed the economic condition in texas, which leads the nation in bank failures
these are not the best of times for any of us in texas. but we are totally committed to serving your needs and contributing to your success. we are here for the long term,'' read the letter signed by fronterhouse, joseph musolino and charles pistor, vice chairmen
the dollar drifted lower monday against most other currencies in listless trading that analysts said reflected uncertainty about the outlook for the u.s. economy and interest rates
gold prices were narrowly mixed. republic national bank in new york quoted a late bid for gold at $444.25 a troy ounce, down 75 cents from friday's late bid
traders looking for clues about whether the economy was expanding or falling into a recession are focusing on reports due later this week when the government makes its latest revised estimate of fourth-quarter economic growth and issues reports on consumer prices, income and spending in january
marc chandler, currency analyst for dean witter reynolds inc. in chicago, said the currency market was being pulled in opposite directions
he said the market had been heartened by two consecutive monthly declines in the u.s. trade deficit, which could indicate the federal reserve may not have to encourage lower interest rates to assure continued progress in reducing the imbalance
but chandler said dollar traders remain concerned that the trade deficit still was too large for comfort. he said there has been speculation that european central banks sold dollars last week, inhibiting the currency's rise, in an effort to maintain stable foreign exchange rates
in tokyo, the dollar fell to 129.95 japanese yen from 130.53 yen on friday. in later trading in london, the dollar slipped to 129.27 yen. in new york, the dollar fell to 129.35 yen from 130.05 yen friday
in london, the british pound rose to $1.7630 from $1.7505 late friday. the pound finished at $1.75925 in new york, up from $1.7495 last friday
other late dollar rates in new york, compared with late rates friday, included: 1.69785 west german marks, down from 1.7080; 1.39275 swiss francs, down from 1.3980; 5.7410 french francs, down from 5.7755; 1,249.50 italian lire, down from 1,256.75; and 1.27225 canadian dollars, down from 1.2737
late dollar rates in europe, compared with late rates friday, included: 1.6955 west german marks, down from 1.7075; 1.3930 swiss francs, down from 1.3985; 5.7500 french francs, down from 5.7675; 1.9040 dutch guilders, down from 1.9150; 1,252.25 italian lire, down from 1,257.75, and 1.2738 canadian dollars, up from 1.2702
gold prices edged up in europe but slipped in new york and hong kong
on new york's commodity exchange, gold for current delivery fell 20 cents a troy ounce to $444.90 from $445.10 last friday
in london, gold rose to $446 an ounce from $442.90 late friday. in zurich, gold rose to $446.50 an ounce from $443 late friday
in hong kong, gold fell to $447.12 an ounce from $447.51 saturday
silver bullion rose in london to $6.41 a troy ounce from $6.37 late friday. later on new york's comex, silver for current delivery edged up 1.5 cents an ounce to $6.40
a supercomputer company announced monday it would keep its home in wisconsin, less than a month after chrysler corp. announced its plans to close an auto plant in the state with 5,500 workers
the decision by supercomputer systems inc. ended a battle with neighboring illinois to attract the company, which is developing fast, high-powered computers
the company was started by steve chen in eau claire after he left cray research inc. in september
the state of wisconsin will help supercomputing systems to secure $25 million in private loans. the city of eau claire will provide a $27 million incentive package by selling a building at a reduced cost, applying for development grants and helping raise money to secure other loans
chen's announcement came after the eau claire city council voted unanimously monday to offer a $25 million backup aid plan if problems arise with the state's share of the package
chrysler announced jan. 27 its plans to halt kenosha auto production by sept. 30. state and local officials have accused the company of breaking an oral promise to keep the plant open for five years, but company officials have said they made no such promise
the city was concerned about offering incentives after witnessing the kenosha problems, but decided the situation was entirely different, said wallace rogers, eau claire city council president
you don't get an opportunity, especially in this part of the country, to attract a large business, especially this state-of-the-art company, too often,'' rogers said
rio grande industries inc. on monday filed an application with the interstate commerce commission to acquire southern pacific transportation co. for $1 billion from santa fe southern pacific corp
rio grande said in a news release that if the acquisition was made, it planned to sell a 25 percent share in the merged railroads to a limited partnership affiliated with the investment firm morgan stanley group inc
the icc already has approved an expedited schedule for the application, with a final decision expected in six months, rio grande said
the application follows a formal purchase agreement that rio grande entered into with santa fe southern pacific corp. last year, the icc ordered santa fe southern to divest either the southern pacific or the santa fe railroad
rio grande's action will affect kansas city southern industries inc.'s rival bid of more than $1.25 billion for the southern pacific, said joele frank of adams &amp; rinehart in new york, which handles kcsi's public relations
kansas city is planning to ask the icc to choose which company should acquire the southern pacific, based on which would serve the public interest the best,'' she said. ``they will ask that the icc consider whether the bidder helps the competition, and also is willing to pay a higher price.''
ms. frank said kcsi should be aided in the icc deliberations by having the higher offer
rio grande officials equally were confident their proposal would win icc approval
we are confident that the commission will find this single-line system covering both the southern and central rail corridors will enhance competition for the benefit of shippers and the public,'' said william holtman, rio grande chairman and chief executive officer
tom saunders, chairman of the equity fund, said: ``the financial commitment we are making is the strongest statement possible about our confidence in the long-term viability of this venture.''
the two lines will be an end-to-end joining of railroads whose common points at ogden, utah, herrington, kan., and kansas city, mo., will allow complete connection of the two systems, rio grande said
rio grande's proposal has been accompanied by a commitment to honor existing labor contracts. the railroad also said it has received the unanimous support of the general chairmen of all the unions representing southern pacific workers
roy thiessen, vice president of marketing and sales for the denver and rio grande western, said shippers have expressed support for the merger as well
it is clear that the public and customers are anxious to see this acquisition approved promptly, without delays caused by third parties,'' said thiessen
the stock market chalked up another broad gain monday, extending its recent rally in a mood of increasing optimism about the economic outlook
the dow jones average of 30 industrials climbed 25.70 to 2,040.29, hitting a new six-week high for the third straight session
advancing issues outnumbered declines by more than 5 to 2 on the new york stock exchange, with 1,160 up, 432 down and 423 unchanged
big board volume totaled 178.93 million shares, against 180.30 million in the previous session
analysts said traders were looking ahead to congressional testimony tuesday by alan greenspan, chairman of the federal reserve board
several statistical reports are also due this week on such subjects as durable goods orders, the consumer price index and personal income and consumption
of special interest to wall streeters is the commerce department's revised figure for the gross national product in the fourth quarter of last year, scheduled to be issued thursday
the department earlier estimated gnp growth, after adjustment for inflation, at a 4.2 percent annual rate in the october-december period. many analysts believe the new figure will be higher
economists at smith barney, harris upham &amp; co., for example, say it is possible that the report will show growth of 5.5 percent or more
while such news might not be especially favorable for interest-rate prospects, brokers said, it would tend to support recent arguments that the economy has not been dealt a severe setback by the market crash last october
polaroid rose 2{ to 30 and eastman kodak dropped 1{ to 40}. late friday it was disclosed that polaroid was seeking to recover as much as $5.7 billion from kodak in connection with violations of instant-photography patents
among other actively traded blue chips, international business machines gained 1~ to 115\; exxon | to 43]; american telephone &amp; telegraph ] to 29~, and general electric 1} to 45
manufacturers hanover jumped 2\ to 25} in buying fueled by takeover rumors and speculation. the company said it had no knowledge of any potential bid to acquire it
other money-center bank issues posted fractional gains. chase manhattan rose } to 24; chemical new york ] to 23|, and j.p. morgan ~ to 37\
allegheny international dropped { to 2~ for a loss of 14.8 percent. over the weekend the company filed for protection under chapter 11 of the federal bankruptcy law
as measured by wilshire associates' index of more than 5,000 actively traded stocks, the market increased $33.07 billion, or 1.29 percent, in value
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks gained 2.00 to 148.96
nationwide turnover in nyse-listed issues, including trades in those stocks on regional exchanges and in the over-the-counter market, totaled 203.55 million shares
standard &amp; poor's index of 400 industrials rose 4.86 to 306.34, and s&amp;p's 500-stock composite index was up 4.03 at 265.64
the nasdaq composite index for the over-the-counter market added 2.86 to 359.98. at the american stock exchange, the market value index closed at 283.01, up 2.85. stock</head>
dissident investor henley group inc. proposed monday that santa fe southern pacific corp. scrap part of its financial restructuring and instead sell $780 million in new stock to henley
the move, which would boost henley's stake in chicago-based santa fe to 34.3 percent from 15.7 percent, was expected to receive a cool reaction from santa fe, which has been fending off henley's unwanted overtures since mid-1987
santa fe spokesman robert gehrt said the proposal would be taken up at santa fe's regularly scheduled board meeting tuesday. he added there might be a comment after that
henley's proposal calls for santa fe to stop the planned payment of $5 per share in high-yield ``junk bonds'' for each of its 157.3 million shares on march 1. santa fe already has made a $25-per-share cash payout
henley has claimed persistently that the pay-in-kind debentures would leave shareholders with a large tax liability because of the way they are structured
instead, henley proposed that santa fe sell henley $780 million worth of new stock at $17.50 per share. proceeds from that deal would be used to make a onetime $5-per-share cash payout to all current shareholders
the proposed deal would mean 44.6 million new shares for henley and would boost santa fe's total shares outstanding to 201.9 million
henley now owns 24.6 million shares, or 15.7 percent, of santa fe, a railroad, land and natural resources concern
but henley conditioned its proposal on santa fe voiding its current ``poison pill'' takeover defense that would be triggered if any holder's stake exceeds 20 percent
if any hostile suitor exceeds that limit, other santa fe shareholders would be permitted to buy new stock at half price
henley repeatedly has criticized santa fe's adoption of the ``poison pill'' last december, saying it restricted the ability of major holders such as itself and toronto-based real estate concern olympia &amp; york developments ltd. to maneuver
in a setback for henley, santa fe earlier this month gave two seats on its board to officials of olympia &amp; york. in exchange, olympia &amp; york agreed to support santa fe's restructuring plans
however, in mid-february olympia &amp; york launched a surprise tender offer to boost its holdings in santa fe to 19.9 percent from its current 10.5 percent
olympia &amp; york's action has caused speculation that the canadian company still intends to push for break-up of santa fe as a means of increasing the company's value
stock-index futures overcame selling resistance monday to settle at their highest values since the oct. 19 stock market collapse
on other markets, cotton futures collapsed; grains and soybeans were mostly lower; livestock and meat were mixed; precious metals were mixed; and energy futures were lower
the contract for march delivery of the standard &amp; poor's 500 stock index gained 3.90 points to settle at 266.85 on the chicago mercantile exchange, topping the previous post-collapse high of 264 points set jan. 5
the march contract had rallied above the psychologicially important 264-point barrier earlier in the session only to fall back. but the second surge inspired broad-based follow-through buying that continued until the close, indicating the market had potential to move even higher, said abbe cocuzza, stock-index strategist for shearson lehman hutton inc. in new york
ms. cocuzza speculated the next point of resistance was 274 points, the level at which the march s&amp;p 500 contract opened on oct. 19 after hitting a low of 280.40 in the previous session
cotton futures prices collapsed on the new york cotton exchange in a sell-off linked to the impending expiration of the march contract
tuesday marks the first notice day for the march cotton contract. traders holding ``long,'' or buy, positions rushed to liquidate those positions to avoid the possibility of being locked into agreements to take physical delivery of cotton on the contract's march 9 expiration date, analysts said
the sharp decline in the march contract's price touched off computerized sell programs that drove prices on the three near-term contracts down the daily limit and sent prices on other contracts to new life-of-contract lows, said ernest simon, cotton specialist for prudential-bache securities inc
the contract for march delivery of cotton settled at 60.40 cents a pound, down the 2-cent limit
grain and soybean futures finished mostly lower on the chicago board of trade
a mixed opening was followed by firmer prices across the board, but the gains did not hold as commission houses became heavy sellers of soybeans and soybean oil near the close, said victor lespinasse, a trader for dean witter reynolds inc
the beans and oil were the two markets that really collapsed, and that collapse pulled everything else down,'' he said
wheat settled } cent lower to 1\ cents higher with march at $3.22\ a bushel; corn was 1 cent to 2\ cents lower with march at $1.99\ a bushel; oats were unchanged to 1 cent lower with march at $1.90} a bushel; soybeans were 6{ cents lower to 3 cents higher with march at $6.27\ a bushel
cattle futures declined while pork futures rose on the chicago mercantile exchange. profit-taking and hedge selling pressured the cattle contracts, and the pork complex rallied on better-than-expected cash prices, analysts said
live cattle were .15 cent to .75 cent lower with april at 72.80 cents a pound; feeder cattle were .20 cent to 1.03 cents lower with march at 82.52 cents a pound; hogs were .12 cent to .33 cent lower with april at 44.05 cents a pound; frozen pork bellies were 1.10 cents lower to .35 cent higher with february at 54.02 cents a pound
gold retreated slightly while silver gained a bit in light trading on new york's commodity exchange
gold settled 20 cents to 80 cents lower with april at $447.60 a troy ounce; silver was 1 cent higher across the board with march at $6.41 a troy ounce
oil prices edged lower after fluctuating in a narrow range. some analysts cited reports of overproduction and other problems within the organization of petroleum exporting countries that could point to bigger oil supplies
west texas intermediate crude oil settled 8 cents to 25 cent lower with march at $16.62 a barrel; heating oil was .01 cent to .56 cent lower with march at 45.79 cents a gallon; unleaded gasoline was .05 cent to .25 cent lower with march at 46.32 cents a gallon
wells fargo &amp; co. has reached a formal agreement on its proposed acquisition of barclays bank of california for $125.7 million in cash, the two banking companies said monday
wells fargo said the proposed acquisition, announced more than five weeks ago and subject to approval of federal regulators, is expected to be completed during late spring
the purchase should have ``minimal, if any, dilution on earnings per share in 1988 and will make a positive contribution to earnings per share in 1989,'' the company said in a press release
wells fargo's stock rose $1.62{ a share to $51.62{ monday on the new york stock exchange. barclays stock closed unchanged at $32.62{
barclays bank of california, a subsidiary of barclays bank plc and the 17th largest bank in the state, had year-end assets of approximately $1.3 billion. it operates 50 branch offices, has about 1,100 employees and will continue to maintain corporate offices in both san francisco and los angeles
san francisco-based wells fargo is the parent company of wells fargo bank, third largest bank in california and ninth biggest in the nation. it had year-end assets of $44.2 billion
the deal continues wells fargo's aggressive retail expansion across california. years</head>
atlantic richfield co.'s alaska subsidiary said monday it is prepared to invest more than $7 billion in the oil-rich state over the next 10 years if petroleum prices and tax policies are stable
about $3 billion would go toward development of known reserves, arco alaska inc. president bill wade told the anchorage chamber of commerce. spending of the rest would depend on the discovery of new oil fields, including any reserves under the arctic national wildlife refuge if congress allows exploration there
to accomplish all of this will require reasonable oil prices and a stable tax policy,'' wade said
the plan assumes prices in the $20-per-barrel range for a few years, followed by increases in the mid-1990s, said arco alaska spokeswoman susan andrews
she said arco has not asked for any changes in alaska's tax structure and does not plan to in the near future
arco alaska operates half the giant prudhoe bay oil field, which along with other north slope oil fields supplies 20 percent of the nation's domestic oil
the dollar fell marginally against the japanese yen in early trading tuesday, while stock prices posted a moderate advance
the dollar opened at 129.27 yen, down 0.68 yen from monday's close of 129.95 yen on the tokyo foreign exchange market
currency dealers said there were no specific incentives affecting the exchange dealings, but that the dollar remained under pressure because of japanese concerns about the u.s. economy
on the tokyo stock exchange, the nikkei stock average of 225 selected issues, which rose 73.30 points monday, gained another 25.71 points or 0.1 percent in early trading, moving to 24,872.42
the dollar fell to the lowest trading level in two weeks in early tokyo trading tuesday due to further selling by foreign banks
the u.s. currency opened at 129.27 yen, down 0.68 yen from monday's close of 129.95, and was quoted at between 128.85 and 129.35 two hours after the start of trading
on the stock market, share prices rebounded from morning lows and were little changed by mid-day
the nikkei index of 225 selected issues ended the morning session at 24,860.28, up 13.57 points, or 0.05 percent, from monday's close. the index rose about 100 points in the last 30 minutes of the morning session from a trading level of around 24,759
volume by the end of the morning session was estimated at 330 million shares, down from 450 million shares during monday's morning session
finance minister kiichi miyazawa told a news conference tuesday that the higher prices of stocks on the tokyo stock exchange reflected japan's sound economic fundamentals and optimism by investors about the future
the seven-up co. will introduce an amber colored soft drink labeled 7-up gold designed to reach young adults, company officials said monday
the company is characterizing the new product as ``the wild side of 7-up,'' a natural spice flavored soft drink sweetened with aspartame
7-up gold is the missing link in the 7-up family,'' said john r. albers, chief executive officer of the company, a subsidiary of the dallas-based investment group hicks &amp; haas
company officials said they are trying to reach a mostly male 18- to 34-year-old market with the new drink. the company also will introduce a diet 7-up gold
russ klein, senior vice president of marketing, said that while the image of 7-up is clean-cut and conservative, 7-up gold is aimed at mainstream soft drink consumers who generally drink colas
but like all 7-up products, it will be ``light, refreshing, thirst quenching, crisp, natural and translucent,'' klein said
shipments of the new drink will begin in april, in time for the spring and summer seasons, with national distribution expected by the end of may, officials said. the company will spend more than $10 million in advertising for the drink this spring and summer, klein said
the new drink follows the introduction of cherry 7-up and diet cherry 7-up last year. those drinks have captured 1.7 percent of the lucrative soft drink market
albers said 7-up gold now gives the company ``the most complete, competitive line-up'' in the soft drink industry
