after receiving a flood of angry phone calls, the israeli embassy said friday that four israeli soldiers shown on television broadcasts beating two bound palestinan youths will face court-martial
a cbs-tv segment broadcast earlier friday on british television showed the soldiers in the occupied west bank kicking the youths in the head and chest before picking up rocks and smashing them down on arms and legs in an effort to break limbs
the embassy said the soldiers involved were detained by military police, who were investigating the thursday incident in nablus
the soldiers would be subject to court-martial and if found guilty would be sent to a military jail, said the embassy
it is being treated very seriously. but we are satisfied that this sort of thing is not going on all over the place every day,'' said an embassy spokesman, speaking on condition of anonymity
there has been much reaction from the british public. we have had many calls. but people can be assured that at least the wheels of justice will run their course.''
earlier, the israeli ambassador in london, yehuda avner, promised a full investigation
interviewed on itn-tv news, he said: ``my reaction is one of shock.''
the beating also was shown on television in denmark and the israeli embassy there was deluged with telephone calls from outraged viewers
the film was shot by bob simon of the american cbs-tv network. at the invitation of the israelis, simon later flew by helicopter to a military camp where he was able to identify the soldiers involved, according to press association, the british domestic news agency.
according to tv news reports, the beating kept up for a full 40 minutes and was in direct contravention of orders issued this week by the army high command that prisoners are not to be beaten if detained after rioting or violence is over
in israel, maj. gen. amram mitzna, the army's west bank commander, said, ``we were shocked and couldn't say a word after we saw this film.''
mitzna said he suspended the unit's deputy commander, a captain, and ordered the two arabs released
rioting broke out in the occupied west bank and gaza strip 11 weeks ago, and scores of arabs have been killed
a foreign office spokesman, who spoke on condition of anonymity under british procedure, said, ``we have watched the scenes on tv with shock and horror. ..
the action of the ... soldiers is incompatible with the professional standards of the israeli defense forces and shows how far the israeli soldiers have been brutalized by their experience.''
israel's ambassador to the netherlands, zev sufott, made an unusual appearance on nationwide television there friday shortly after the beating scene was shown on dutch television
these are aberrations which, as soon as we hear of them, we go out and pick them (the perpetrators) up,'' sufott said in an interview with the nos-journaal news broadcast
anchorwoman noraly beyer said that by that time, 150 protest calls already had been made to the studio
passengers on a cruise to central america abandoned ship in panama after the crew mutinied, the air conditioning failed and a travel agency's promise of a dream vacation turned into a floating nightmare
the last 90 passengers aboard the cruise ship galaxy disembarked in panama city, panama, on friday without completing the last leg of the trip between acapulco and cancun, mexico, said ron dusek, spokesman for the state attorney general's office
texas attorney general jim mattox filed suit wednesday against golden cruisetours inc. of san antonio, which booked the cruise, two of its subsidiaries and the companies' owners. mattox alleged that customers were bilked of hundreds of thousands of dollars when their trips were canceled and their money was not refunded
the cruise was advertised in 52 newspapers across the country, officials said. a brochure promised passengers a ``friendly, attentive crew'' and the chance to meet new friends
the cruise that began feb. 11 in acapulco fell short of the promises, passengers said
eighty-seven of the 250 passengers refused to go aboard because food was cold and the air conditioning was broken, officials said
the next day, the crew mutinied, according to the state department. more passengers left the ship feb. 18 before the galaxy departed punta renas, costa rica
about 50 mutineers were removed from the ship in costa rica, leading to a dock rally sponsored by a local union which refused to supply replacement labor
passenger sarita anderson described a fight in the ship's lounge during a stop in guatelmala
as we started into the lounge, there was a fight going on,'' mrs. anderson said. ``it was something to do with work schedules.''
the english-speaking honduran crew supervisor was arguing with the ship's staff chief, yelling that the mexican crew members, kitchen help and cabin boys, who had been hired only days earlier in acapulco, were being worked too hard, mrs. anderson said
the two men then began a bloody fight, she said
telephone calls friday to golden cruisetours' office in san antonio went unanswered
the air force dispatched investigators to begin processing damage claims after a fighter jet buzzed a residential area, causing broken windows, fallen roof tiles and minor injuries
a pilot from edwards air force base was participating in a week-long military exercise at george air force base, and was simulating an attack in an f-4 phantom fighter when the damage occurred thursday afternoon, george spokesmen said
he probably didn't know the area and didn't know how close we are to adelanto,'' tech. sgt. jorge caballero. the two bases are more than 50 miles apart in the desert north of los angeles
there were no major injuries, but there were some complaints of roof tiles falling on people and some minor cuts and scrapes,'' caballero said
the pilot's name was not released
a hospital and a nursing firm will split the cost of a $925,000 settlement to a woman who sued, charging malpractice after her stomach blew up like a balloon and her intestine ruptured, her lawyers said
juanita johns, 53, reached the settlement this week with university medical center and medical personnel pool of northeast florida inc., which supplied a private duty nurse for her last year, attorney wayne alford said friday
the suit charged that the nurse, ordered by a doctor to place a tube down mrs. johns' throat to remove intestinal gas, incorrectly hooked up a pump, causing air pressure that blew a hole in the patient's intestine
mrs. johns, who continues to suffer infections and has a disfiguring scar on her abdomen, will receive $150,000 from the hospital and $775,000 from the nursing pool, said alford and fellow attorney john kalil
like olympiads and presidential elections, leap day comes but once in four years. monday's calendar adjustment, like setting a watch back in the fall to get an extra hour, adds a day in the year to keep things in tune with nature
except for owners of some day-date watches, of course, most people don't have to make any actual calendar adjustments. the printers have done that for them by adding a 29th day to february
for folks born on prior february 29ths, it's an eagerly awaited chance to to celebrate that doesn't occur every year. for some aged 80, perhaps having to list only 20 birthdays is a joy
others anxious for adulthood struggle to prove that five birthdays makes them old enough to vote and drive a car. indeed, the problem was crucial for frederick, the hero of gilbert and sullivan's ``pirates of penzance,'' a young man born feb. 29 and indentured until his 21st birthday
for both the fun and frustration of this added day, render unto julius caesar the blame that is his
caesar wanted to make the calendar accurate, and it almost worked
the day is designed to compensate for the fact that calendars count in whole days, 365 or 366 depending on the year, while it takes the earth 365 days, 5 hours, 48 minutes and 46 seconds to get around the sun
adding an extra day every fourth year helped compensate for that difference of about a quarter day, but problems became obvious as the romans' inaccurate calendar got three months out of line with the seasons
so, in 46 b.c., known ever since as the ``year of confusion,'' caesar added 67 days to the calendar to set it right again. and to keep the calendar accurate, he instituted the system of slipping in one more day on feb. 29
that reform, suggested by the roman astronomer sosigenes, became part of what is known as the julian calendar and remained in use for centuries
there was one small problem: sosigenes had done a little too much rounding off,'' explained gail s. cleere of the u.s. naval observatory
sosigenes had estimated the year at 365.25 days, while it really was 365.2422 days. that means sosigenes was about 11 minutes off over the course of a year
although caesar and his astronomer were long gone before anyone noticed it, some 1,500 years later, 11 minutes per year had added up to a whopping 10 days,'' cleere said. ``and so, the seasons were slipping backwards again _ spring into winter, winter into fall, and so on.''
that prompted the current calendar, instituted by pope gregory in 1582, who dropped the offending 10 days _ a change that took a while to be accepted in non-catholic countries. indeed, england and her colonies didn't join in until 1752, by which time the error had grown to 11 days. japan came over in 1873, china in 1911 and russia held out until its bolshevik revolution in 1917
that's why many history books refer to dates during the transition period as either ``old style'' or ``new style'' depending on whether a country was following the julian or gregorian calendar at the time
in addition to dropping the added days, pope gregory ruled that not every fourth year would be a leap year
in the gregorian calendar, centennial years are leap years only if they can be divided evenly by 400
thus, the year 2000 will be somewhat unusual in being a leap year. the last centennial leap year was 1600, the next will be 2400
the calendar's still not perfect, cleere admits, with the gregorian year still 26 seconds too long. but that only amounts to a bit over a half-hour per century, so it will be a long time before any further adjustments need to be made
the reagan administration, in a new rebuff to panamanian military strong man manuel antonio noriega, is lending diplomatic support to president eric arturo delvalle in his bid to resist a noriega-led effort to oust him
delvalle was the target of a series of maneuvers that had the earmarks of a military coup after noriega successfully fought off the president's effort to depose him as defense chief
we still regard him as president,'' state department spokeswoman phyllis oakley said friday, hours after noriega's allies in the national assembly voted to remove delvalle from office and to appoint the education minister as president. delvalle called the move ``legally despicable'' and urged a national strike to repudiate noriega's leadership
mrs. oakley said the u.s. decision was based on its support for ``civilian constitutional rule.''
high-level meetings were held throughout the day friday as officials assessed the startling array of developments in a country regarded as one of latin america's most strategically important
the administration has demonstrated increasing hostility toward noriega, particularly since two federal grand juries returned indictments feb. 5 depicting him as a key figure in an international drug trafficking conspiracy
delvalle had been viewed by the administration as little more than a front man for noriega, but that all changed thursday evening when he broke with the military chieftain
white house spokesman marlin fitzwater said, ``we condemn all efforts to perpetuate military rule in panama, including efforts to remove president delvalle from office.''
panama's political turmoil, marked by shifting allegiances and high-stakes intrigue, gave rise to questions about whether the united states would intervene militarily. but president reagan said, ``i don't think that's an answer.''
vice president george bush, speaking to the south carolina press association, was less categorical than reagan
bush said he would ``reserve the right to do whatever is necessary, including military force, to protect america's sacred interest in that region of the world.'' on the other hand, bush said he didn't ``want to rattle any sabers.''
according to a panamanian dissident, delvalle knew in advance that his effort to replace noriega would fail, but the maneuver was only the first step in an elaborate plan designed to force noriega's departure over the next three weeks
jose i. blandon, a former close associate of noriega who has joined forces with delvalle, said in an interview here friday that he expects democratic countries in latin america will rally behind delvalle, further weakening noriega's position. the united states has been consulting with latin american countries on that subject
blandon said that he, delvalle and an array of panamanian opposition leaders have been working secretly for weeks on the plan to remove noriega
noriega's downfall will be hastened, blandon said, if there is broad support for a general strike in panama and if the united states decides to impose a trade embargo against that country
sen. alfonse d'amato, r-n.y., called friday for a trade embargo, but white house spokesman marlin fitzwater indicated the administration had no interest in such a proposal. other administration officials said they knew of no firm decision to rule out that option
blandon said a u.s. trade embargo would cripple panama, pointing out that the country is heavily dependent financially on a trans-isthmus pipeline that transfers alaskan oil to tankers serving u.s. east coast ports
blandon said noriega already has been approached about the possibility of seeking exile in the dominican republic. he said dominican authorities have indicated they would be willing to receive him
but because of the federal indictments against him, noriega could be subject to extradition procedures because of a u.s. treaty with the dominican republic
an agriculture department study of 1984 yields and expenses shows that sugarbeets can be produced at lower costs in the midwest than in some areas of the west, as a rule
the study involved seven regions that produce nearly all the u.s. sugarbeets on about 8,700 farms. overall, the department's economic research service reported friday that it cost an average of $30.30 per net ton to produce beets. the range, however, was between $24 and $35 per ton
about 60 percent of the 1984 u.s. sugarbeet crop was produced at a cost below the u.s. average price support of $31.63 per ton,'' the report said. ``the producers received a weighted average price of $33.90 a net ton, ranging from $23.30 in region 3 (colorado, nebraska and southeastern wyoming) to $37.10 in region 6 (eastern idaho).''
most beet producers in region 3 operated at a loss because of the closing of several processing plants by the great western sugar co., the report said
sugarbeets are a high-value crop, but incomes vary widely among producers because of differences in input costs, yields, risks and non-farm income,'' the report said. ``climatic extremes in the widely disparate sugarbeet production regions may create highly variable incomes from region to region or from year to year.''
the study of 1984 costs, by region, showed:
_region 1, michigan and ohio, 10.8 percent of the u.s. sugarbeet acreage; government support of $27.79 per net ton; actual price received by growers, $32.95 per ton; average cost of production, $24.02 per ton
_region 2, minnesota and eastern north dakota, 35.2 percent of the u.s. acreage; support of $32.24 per ton; actual price received by growers, $36 per ton; average cost of production, $25.66 per ton
_region 3, colorado, nebraska and southeastern wyoming, 12.8 percent of the acreage; support of $31.23 per ton; actual price received by growers, $23.30 per ton; average cost of production, $28.06 per ton
_region 4, new mexico and texas, was not included in the study
_region 5, montana, northwestern wyoming and northwestern north dakota, 5 percent of the acreage; support of $31.37 per ton; actual price received by growers, $35.40 per ton; average cost of production, $34.26 per ton
_region 6, eastern idaho, 7.4 percent of the acreage; support of $31.05 per ton; actual price received by growers, $37.10 per ton; average cost of production, $34.87 per ton
_region 7, western idaho and oregon, 6.5 percent of the acreage; support of $31.05 per ton; actual price received by growers, $36.90 per ton; average cost of production, $34.68 per ton
_region 8, california, 18.8 percent of the acreage; support of $32.98 per ton; actual price received by growers, $35.10 per ton; average cost of production, $34.57 per ton.   
the use of cotton by domestic textile manufacturers is at the highest level since the early 1970s, but an agriculture department analysis says the price outlook for producers is uncertain
in the 1987 marketing year that ended last july 31, nearly 7.5 million bales of cotton were used by mills, up from 6.4 million in 1986. as it looks now, 1988 mill use is headed for another gain to around 7.8 million bales
but imports of cotton textiles also are up, totaling an equivalent of 4.9 million bales in 1987, a 22 percent increase from 1986, the department's economic research service said friday
meanwhile, u.s. exports of raw cotton are expected to be around 7 million bales in the 1988 marketing year, an increase of 300,000 bales from 1987, the agency said in its new outlook report
based on jan. 1 indications, the 1987 cotton harvest _ which goes into the overall supply for the 1988 marketing year _ is expected to yield 14.7 million bales, up from 9.7 million bales in 1986
cotton prices moved up last year because of the tighter supply and rising demand. the u.s. spot price, for example, rose above 77 cents per pound, the report said. but since last august, prices have dropped 17 to 20 cents
the larger-than-expected 1987 u.s. crop, the potential for increased acreage and production in 1988, and concern about the economy's performance have pressured prices lower this season,'' the report said
milk production last year declined 1 percent to less than 142.5 billion pounds from a revised 1986 record of 143.8 billion pounds, the agriculture department says
previously, usda had estimated 1987 milk output at about 142.9 billion pounds and the 1986 record at 144.1 billion
the new estimates were in a monthly report friday on milk production, which showed january output running about 3 percent above a year ago in the major dairy states
department economists say 1988 milk production is expected to rise by 1 percent to 3 percent, which could push output for the year to another record level
the romanian government has decided to renounce special trade benefits from the united states rather than comply with american human rights demands, the state department says
as a result of abandoning the 13-year policy, romania could lose up to $250 million in commerce with the united states this year
at the same time, the united states will lose an economic weapon the reagan administration has claimed to be effective in pressuring romania to improve the plight of its people
state department spokeswoman phyllis oakley announced friday that romania informed the united states through diplomatic channels that it had decided to renounce its receipt of most-favored-nation trading status. that status has kept tariffs on romanian goods at levels lower than those for products from most other soviet-allied countries
the benefits will end july 2 and romania also will lose eligibility for u.s. government-supported export credits through the commodity credit corp. or the export-import bank, mrs. oakley said
she said romania estimates the action will cause a $250 million annual reduction in romanian sales to the united states, which totaled $775 million in 1987
u.s. exports to romania are worth $200 million annually, of which half are agriculture products, and mrs. oakley said the competitiveness of these exports also will suffer
rep. christopher smith, r-n.j., a house foreign affairs committee member who visited bucharest last year, said in an interview that the decision by romanian president nicolae ceausescu to renounce the benefit was ``to pre-empt the annual scrutiny of romania's human rights record, which is deplorable.''
he's cutting off his nose to spite his face,'' smith said of ceausescu. ```we don't want to end the relationship. we just want them to stop the trashing of human rights.''
in recent years, u.s. diplomats have conferred with the ceausescu government on steps romania was expected to take to get most-favored-nation status. the message was simple: improve rights or lose income
under the 1975 jackson-vanik amendment, communist countries otherwise ineligible for most-favored-nation status can win the benefit from congress if the president certifies the country has fair emigration policies
since enactment of the amendment, which was designed to spur emigration of jews and other ethnic groups from the soviet bloc, only hungary, poland and romania have received the benefits
while the statute links the benefits only to emigration policies, a growing dissatisfaction on capitol hill with romania's overall human rights record in recent months has prompted bills cutting off the privileges this year
besides romania's longstanding suppression of free speech, assembly, political opposition and other rights, senators and congressmen said, there had been little movement on u.s. demands for a loosening of control over religious minorities
deputy secretary of state john c. whitehead, who met ceausescu in bucharest three weeks ago, informed the romanian leader of u.s. dissatisfaction with human rights policies
ceausescu's reply appeared to presage the decision announced friday. whitehead told reporters after the meeting that in response to his comments about romanian rights, ceausescu said, in essence: stop meddling in romania's internal affairs
mrs. oakley said that despite the halting of the most-favored-nation process, romania ``has authoritatively stated to us that it will continue to allow emigration for family reunification purposes, without relation to economic ties with the united states. we welcome this.''
this staid old spa town was a bit taken aback last week to discover that the winter olympics' best-loved loser is a native son _ ski-jumper eddie ``the eagle'' edwards
most of cheltenham, like the rest of the world, hadn't heard of the 24-year-old edwards until he leaped into the olympic limelight with flailing arms and an unflappable smile
edwards finished last in two events but came first as a crowd-pleaser, and on friday, british television viewers saw him rubbing shoulders with actor burt reynolds on the johnny carson show
mayor gil wakeley said cheltenhamites are preparing a homecoming parade, cakes and receptions for the part-time plasterer, although wakeley confessed he wasn't sure where or in what order
there were quite a number of people that had never heard of his name,'' said wakeley, sitting at the desk in his office, nicknamed ``the parlor,'' where silver tea sets bedecked a chest and a little dog wandered in and out
but i think most of cheltenham stayed up to watch his final jumps,'' he said
there was no sign of excitement on the promenade of chic shops and fine regency buildings, no eddie-the-eagle t-shirts and no banners in the city of 95,000 people 90 miles west of london
cheltenham, a tourist town built around mineral waters tapped 200 years ago, isn't the type of place to blow its horn about the eagle, but it seems quietly proud
without sponsors, coaches or a single jumping slope in his native land, with no one but his parents and sister with him in calgary, edwards had dared to ``have a go at it,'' as the townspeople put it
the eagle, whose thick glasses enhance his gangly, birdlike look, came last in both his events, the 70- and 90-meter jumps. his longest jump fell 46.5 meters short of the winner of both events, matti nykanen of finland
but when he added three meters to the british record of 68 meters, london newspapers ran headlines such as, ``eddie survives ... and breaks british record.''
edwards, who doesn't mind coming across as a bit of a klutz, always had a smile and wave for the crowd after his jumps
the crowds roared, but so did the critics. norway tried to have edwards barred, and an olympic official said 11-year-olds could jump farther, although nykanen reportedly supported edwards' right to compete
back home there were doubters too, like the times of london, whose sportswriter commented: ``the question remains whether the likes of eddie, the wingless eagle, ... deserved to compete in the games,'' since ``the emphasis should be on excellence.''
cecil baylis, a retired cheltenham businessman, agreed. ``it's a bit of a joke isn't it? i think people are laughing at him and with him too.''
the mayor dismissed the critics
the idea of the olympics is for people to try _ for each and everyone to have an opportunity to try,'' said wakeley. ``it's for the amateur.''
edwards seems to have struck a peculiarly british chord _ a weakness for the gallant loser
the british always tend to like the underdog,'' said david watson, edwards's first coach on the artificial slopes of the gloucester hotel and ski center near cheltenham, where edwards took up skiing in his teens on turf that doubled for snow
and in ski jumping, he's certainly the underdog,'' added watson, who manages the resort
watson recalls the novice eagle as ``keen but not as good as a lot of people who were skiing then .... he was very ambitious but he didn't want to listen.''
edwards yearned to slalom, but became fond of jumping during a visit to italy. also, said his aunt, jean byrne, jumping was ``a wee bit cheaper.''
we were really surprised'' by the publicity, she said. ``he only went to jump. people really took to him.''
here are tentative schedules for the presidential candidates for the week beginning feb. 28. the information was provided by the candidates
sunday, feb. 28:
democrats:
dukakis _ maine
gephardt _ montgomery and mobile, ala.; jackson, miss
gore _ atlanta; houston
hart _ houston
jackson _ tampa, fla.; houston
simon _ houston
republicans: gop debate in atlanta
bush _ atlanta; washington, d.c
dole _ atlanta
kemp _ atlanta
robertson _ atlanta
monday, feb. 29:
democrats: democratic debate in williamsburg, va
dukakis _ williamsburg
gephardt _ winston-salem and greenville, n.c.; williamsburg;
americus, ga
gore _ washington d.c.; williamsburg, va
hart _ richmond and williamsburg, va
jackson _ lumberton, n.c.; williamsburg
simon _ idaho; washington state

republicans:
bush _ washington, d.c
dole _ atlanta; jackson, miss; fort lauderdale, fla; raleigh, n.c
kemp _ washington, d.c
robertson _ florida
tuesday, march 1:
democrats:
dukakis _ baltimore
gephardt _ plains, ga.; baltimore
gore _ richmond, va.; ashland, louisville, owensboro,
lexington and frankfort, ky
hart _ raleigh, n.c
jackson _ new york city; baltimore; greenvile, n.c
simon _ washington state
republicans:
bush _ miami, ft. lauderdale, palm beach and tampa, fla
dole _ raleigh, n.c.; knoxville, tenn.; tulsa and enid, okla
kemp _ south carolina
robertson _ florida
wednesday, march 2:
democrats:
dukakis _ florida
gephardt _ louisville; st louis, springfield, mo
gore _ (ten.) tulsa; cheyenne; lubbock; baton rouge
hart _ chicago
jackson _ mississippi; arkansas
simon _ illinois
republicans:
bush _ biloxi, miss.; baton rouge, la.; south carolina
dole _ enid, okla.; jackson, miss.; new orleans, la.; alexandria, va
washington, d.c
kemp _ south carolina
robertson _ south carolina
thursday, march 3
democrats:
dukakis _ beaumont, corpus christi, mcallen and houston, texas
gephardt _ kansas city; new york city
gore _ (tent.) baton rouge; new york city
hart _ louisville, ky
jackson _ oklahoma city; st. louis; new orleans
simon _ illinois
republicans:
bush _ south carolina
dole _
kemp _ south carolina
robertson _ south carolina
friday, march 4:
democrats:
dukakis _ lubock, texas; denver, colorado; washington
gephardt _ little rock; shreveport, monroe, baton rouge, new orleans la
gore _
hart _ orlando, fla
jackson _ odessa and san antonio, texas; miami
simon _ illinois
republicans:
bush _ south carolina
dole _
kemp _ south carolina
robertson _ south carolina
saturday, march 5:
democrats:
dukakis _ arkansas (little rock area); texas
gephardt _ tallahassee, miami, tampa, orlando
gore _
hart _ new orleans
jackson _ savannah, ga.; charlotte, s.c.; nashville
simon _ illinois
republicans:
bush _
dole _
kemp _ south carolina
robertson _ georgia
sunday, march 6:
democrats:
dukakis _ san antonio, texas
gephardt _ corpus christi, dallas
gore _
hart _
jackson _
simon _ illinois
republicans:
bush _
dole _
kemp _ south carolina
robertson _
kill pm5a files killed: pm5a hpm 0490 21:12 02-26 ----- rwbx pm-candidates-schedules,490
ok
here are some comments friday from candidates for the presidency:

george bush, on panama's military strong man manuel antonio noriega: ``noriega's gone bad, and he's proven he's trafficked in narcotics. ... noriega should go and in my view he will go.''

jack kemp, saying he thinks noriega should be ousted because a friendly government in panama is essential: ``noriega ... represents a threat to the panama canal.''

richard gephardt, saying eastern airlines cares more about profits than its employees: ``we will stop the attitude that the way to make profits is to take them out of the hides of employees.''
eastern airlines spokesman robin matell called gephardt's remarks ``a cheap attempt to get votes in the upcoming presidential primaries.''

michael dukakis, stressing education and urging good jobs and opportunity for all: ``it's going to take hard workers, not high rollers, to get america moving again.''

pat robertson, speaking to students at a christian academy: ``(i want) to see america once again return to the fundamental faith that she had, the faith of our fathers, to go back to our faith in god and go back to individual self-reliance, to go back to a feeling of community, to go back to strong family values.''

jesse jackson, reminding the georgia legislature of his southern roots: ``i am one of you. i worked hard to make the new south new _ now, let's make the new south better. i am my party's conscience. by july, with your help, i want to be its candidate.''

bob dole, picking up an endorsement from former texas gov. john connally: ``i think today our campaign goes up another notch.''
president reagan and southern republican state chairmen did some talking about prospects of attracting conservative democrats to vote gop in the super tuesday presidential primary balloting
the participants in the discussions friday also talked about how republican ranks will already be swollen with new members drawn to the primary by the candidacy of former television evangelist pat robertson
white house spokesman marlin fitzwater said the president invited the southerners to talk about ``what they expect in terms of voter turnout, the new strength of the republican party in the south, and how they see the campaign going at this point.''
according to arkansas gop chairman ed bethune, voters in his state will ``see very clearly there are two primaries, the liberal primary and the conservative primary.''
jeannie austin of orlando, fla., head of the southern republican chairmen's association, said ``we talked about super tuesday and how we could get conservative democrats to vote with us.''
ms. austin and oklahoma state chairman tom cole agreed that the candidacy of pat robertson, by encouraging his fundamentalist christian admirers to participate, is swelling the ranks of republican primary voters
he gets part of the credit without a doubt,'' cole said. he added, however, that he believes reagan has done more than anyone else to increase republican strength in the south
ms. austin said robertson ``certainly has an organization and we welcome these new people to our party because it certainly beefs up our numbers.''
republican state chairman van hipp of south carolina, which will hold its gop primary march 5, predicted a ``very tight race'' in his state, saying robertson has a good organization, sen. bob dole of kansas has the support of the popular sen. strom thurmond, r-s.c., and new york rep. jack kemp ``is coming on strong in rural areas.''
hipp said reagan ``views this as a golden opportunity to attract independent and conservative-leaning democrats.''
others attending were george strake of texas, jack hawke of north carolina, evelyn mcphail of mississippi, john stuckey of georgia, jim henry of tennessee, donald hoffman of virginia, and bob gable of kentucky. chairmen from louisiana and alabama missed the meeting
reagan, who has remained publicly neutral in the gop race, was asked by a reporter during a photo-taking session before the meeting whether he expects vice president george bush to win in the south
gesturing around the table with his hands, the president said: ``ask them.''
a federal appeals court has given two of the nation's largest manufacturers of glass containers the green light to operate as a single company
on friday, the u.s. court of appeals for the district of columbia rejected a request by the federal government to block the proposed merger between owens-illinois inc. and brockway inc
owens-illinois spokesman john hoff said the court denied a motion by the federal trade commission for an injunction and dissolved a temporary stay of the proposed merger
hoff said the court ruled that the ftc had failed to demonstrate the need for an injunction
he said the company has extended its $60-per-share tender offer for brockway until 5 p.m. monday, after which time it will be free to proceed with the merger
last week, u.s. district court judge joyce hens green refused the ftc's request for a preliminary injunction, ruling that the ftc had not proven the deal would harm competition
the ftc then asked the appeals court to block the merger until the agency could conduct an administrative review of potential anti-competitive effects of the deal
last september, the toledo, ohio-based owens-illinois proposed to buy brockway, of jacksonville, fla., for $750 million
the merger would make the combined company the largest manufacturer of glass containers in the industry. the nation's top manufacturer is anchor glass container corp., which controls 23.7 percent of the market
the ftc has said the merger might violate federal antitrust laws by substantially reducing competition in the glass container industry and creating conditions for price discrimination
but judge green accepted the argument by the two manufacturers that competition from the plastics and metal-packaging industry will keep down prices
attorneys for owens-illinois say the purpose of the merger is to achieve cost savings and efficiencies that will enable the combined companies to vigorously compete against the producers of plastics, metal and other types of packaging materials
the customs service was unable to produce immediate documentation that 6.4 million barrels of oil imported from iran late last year had been shipped or under contract before a trade ban was imposed
buyers up, a consumer oil-buying cooperative affiliated with consumer advocate ralph nader, said friday the oil was imported in november and december after president reagan banned trade with that country
the customs service said it believed the oil was legal, but couldn't immediately lay its hands on the documents that would prove itt
the oil accounted for 7.3 percent of u.s. crude imports for those two months. the trade embargo took effect nov. 29
buyers up director jason adkins said officials at the foreign assets control division of the treasury and the strategic branch of the customs service ``were completely unaware of the november and december shipments of iranian oil to this country until we brought it to their attention.''
he agreed the oil could be legal, but said he had not been able to find anyone in the government who could say it was
customs service spokesman david hoover said, ``we're reasonably sure _ we don't have the printout _ the oil was legal.'' he said it might take two days to find the computer printout that would show the certifications that the oil was exempt from the president's action
since the exemptions expired dec. 31, hoover said he would be surprised if january statistics showed any shipments from iran
iran was a major supplier to the united states in the 1970s before the revolution in that country, but shipments fell after the 1981 release of the american hostages seized in the u.s. embassy in tehran
iran generally accounted for from 1 percent to 3 percent of u.s. crude imports in following years
shipments rose sharply in the early months of 1987, however, and in july iran was the second largest supplier of crude to the united states. reagan said he imposed the ban to ensure that u.s. purchases did not contribute to terrorism, which the u.s. government says iran supports
for all of 1987, iran's crude shipments amounted to 5.1 percent of u.s. crude imports, more than 88 million barrels worth $1.5 billion. that was more than triple the $468 million paid for 34 million barrels in 1986. far, including 137 selected earlier, actions at portland caucus, quotes from party chairwoman; picks up 13th graf pvs bgng, `gov. john'</note>
part-time resident george bush was way out in front friday night as maine republicans launched a weekend of gop presidential caucuses, his campaign said
statewide, the vice president's campaign claimed to have won 166 of the 234 state delegates selected so far for the april convention in bangor, at which 22 national delegates will be chosen
the bush campaign said pat robertson so far has received 28 state delegates, sen. bob dole of kansas has collected 20 and rep. jack kemp of new york has garnered five while 15 delegates were uncommitted
the results of the republican caucuses do not bind state convention delegates and party leaders were not bothering to compile the tallies right away
the delegates totaled by the bush campaign included the 137 selected in caucuses in 43 towns since late january
the republicans will select the rest of the 1,506 state delegates during caucuses saturday and sunday
bush and dole forces had forged an uneasy alliance before the caucuses to frustrate robertson forays in delegate-rich areas as they faced an influx of first-time voters from fundamentalist churches
robertson supporters warred with bush backers over voting rules friday night at the republican caucus in portland, maine's largest city, but tempers cooled when most of the 33 delegate slots at stake were evenly divided between the two
each camp came away with 15, while dole received the rest after three hours of heated procedural voting and brokering
the local republican organization in portland became the first to drop its winner-take-all standard in favor of proportional representation
bush and dole factions conferred continuously during the portland caucusing but, in the end, the dole supporters sided with robertson's campaign in scrapping the all-or-nothing allocation of delegates
state party chairwoman karen stram, watching the portland voting, acknowledged that feelings were running high in the various camps. stram said her job was ``to be sure that everyone comes out of it feeling they got a fair shake.''
she also said statewide turnout could reach 15,000 or more by the end of the weekend
no question, we're up three times at least'' over previous years, she said
organizers say their primary goal is to win as many as possible of 1,506 state convention delegate slots for their partisans. but party regulars also say the bush-dole coalition reflects fears that the state republican organization could be taken over by robertson's supporters, a repeat of what happened in michigan
john solberg, robertson's state coordinator, this week charged that ``the bush and dole campaigns are attempting to keep the majority silent in the democratic process.''
solberg made his comments after the gop caucus in waterville, at which robertson won a straw poll but came away with no delegates
participants in the straw poll split four ways, with robertson leading with 57 votes, bush 40, dole 20, and kemp eight, solberg said. but bush and dole backers joined together in the caucusing to block robertson from maintaining a winner-take-all plurality. the caucus's 12 delegate slots for the state convention were awarded to the stop-robertson combine
solberg said a similar deal was struck at the gop caucus in kittery last week
gov. john r. mckernan jr., who has been campaigning for bush, who has a summer home in kennebunkport, said thursday the vice president's campaign was acting in self-interest to ``maximize the number of delegates'' it could lock up. he called solberg's complaint ``amusing,'' saying that robertson organizers had themselves sought to build anti-bush coalitions around the state
this is not fun and games,'' said mckernan, maine's first republican governor in two decades. ``we're talking about the next president of the united states.''
state sen. pamela cahill, a dole organizer, also dismissed the robertson campaign charge. ``we operated within the caucus structure and got those dole delegates,'' she said friday
acknowledging that a bush-dole alliance here represented a far different attitude than seen nationally between the competing campaigns, cahill said she was motivated by concern for ``the well-being of the republican party.''
i guess i'm too damn parochial,'' cahill said. ``i'm concerned because i don't want to see robertson people getting all the positions ... blocking out the rank-and-file republicans who support our party in good times and bad ... and then leaving the party in disarray,'' she said
at the few republican caucuses held already, turnout appears to be much higher than in the past, a factor attributed to robertson's grass-roots drive
but a hostile reception for the insurgents could undercut the potential for long-range party growth, warned an organizer for the flagging maine campaign of kemp
we're sending the people home and telling them `you're not welcome,''' said george smith, who predicted the establishment alliance would make bush ``the big winner.''
in michigan, robertson supporters won control of the state gop committee, working in cooperation with kemp backers. the coalition fell apart, however, in january when kemp's camp defected to join forces with bush and split the state's 77 gop delegates
democrats caucus statewide on sunday, and first place is conceded to gov. michael dukakis of neighboring massachusetts
an off-duty policeman was slain friday during a robbery attempt outside the grocery where he moonlighted as a security guard, police said
a witness said the officer, gary d. mccarthy, 32, was shot after refusing to hand over a money bag. mccarthy, who was in street clothes, died at parkland memorial hospital four hours later, said police chief billy prince
the 14-month member of the force was escorting the store manager from a bank visit when a man jumped out of a car and attempted to rob the manager, said sgt. s.g. shaw
`the officer went for his weapon and they got into a shootout,'' shaw said
mccarthy was shot three times, and one of the bullets lodged in his heart, hospital spokeswoman paula sears said. after the officer fell to the ground, he fired twice at the fleeing vehicle and shattered its rear window, police said
officers found a car believed to be used in the robbery attempt a few blocks away in a housing project, where witnesses said they saw three men flee, police said. helicopters searched for the men
derick johnson, 21, who was standing outside the store when the shooting occurred, said the officer was carrying a money bag when approached by the gunman
the guy tried to snatch the money, but the police officer wouldn't give it to him,'' johnson said. ``the guy was waving a gun, and when the officer wouldn't give him the money, he just shot him.''
two officers were slain last month in cases that sparked both support for police and criticism from minorities who said officers had been too trigger-happy when arresting blacks and hispanics
a white officer was slain jan. 23 by a deranged black vagrant who had wrested the policeman's gun away on a downtown street. a black officer was killed a week earlier during a suspected burglary at an apartment complex where he worked off-duty
prince, who earlier had charged that city council criticism of the police department had created so much public hostility that police deaths were inevitable, said of friday's shooting, ``i don't see how you can make anything racial out of this.''
the gunman was black; the officer white
the problem is we have too many people on the streets who should be in the penitentiary,'' the chief said. ``there are too many people on the streets who are mean.''
here, at a glance, are the methods for picking delegates from maine to attend the 1988 democratic and republican national conventions this summer
method: caucus
date: sunday, february 28
presidential filing deadline: none
pledged delegates: 23
super delegates: 4
total: 27
delegates allocated: sunday, february 28
selection of delegates: saturday, may 14 and sunday, may 15

maine uses a two-step caucus-convention system for picking its delegates to the democratic national convention. maine, which is one of four states specifically allowed by democratic party rules to begin the process of picking delegates before march 8, holds local municipal caucuses on feb. 28. the results of these caucuses will govern the allocation of the state's 15 pledged national convention delegates from congressional districts. maine's remaining eight pledged national convention delegates will be chosen at the democratic state convention on may 13-15
method: caucus
date: sunday, february 28
presidential filing deadline: none
delegates: 22
delegates allocated: saturday, april 16
selection of delegates: saturday, april 16
maine republicans choose their national convention delegates with town caucuses held between feb. 26 and feb. 28 to elect delegates to the state convention and congressional district conventions. delegates are not required to pledge their support to a presidential candidate. the state's two congressional district conventions meet in conjunction with the state convention april 15-17. six national convention delegates are chosen by the congressional district conventions, and the remaining 16 delegates are elected at-large by the state convention
an eastern airlines spokesman says democratic presidential candidate richard gephardt was playing ``cheap political games'' when he criticized the attitude of company management
eastern spokesman robin matell described gephardt's comments as ``a cheap attempt to get votes in the upcoming presidential primaries.''
gephardt said controversy surrounding the miami-based airline is a national issue as well as a local one
what it signifies is an attitude in corporate america that the way of the future is to cut jobs, is to engage in mergers, is to engage in taking the important parts of the corporation out and splitting them out into entities so that there can be quick paper profits,'' gephardt said
reps. larry smith and claude pepper said they'll ask congress to hold hearings to investigate eastern. the two florida democrats support gephardt's candidacy and appeared with him at a news conference friday
gephardt, whose campaign has stressed a need to improve corporate productivity, stopped short of calling for re-regulation of the airline industry by the federal government. but the missouri congressman said if he's elected president, his administration will enforce the industry's safety standards and change the way management thinks
we will stop the attitude that the way to make profits is to take them out of the hides of employees,'' said gephardt, who met with eastern employees before the news conference
eastern, which reported a net loss of $181.1 million in 1987, is demanding contract concessions totaling $450 million from unions representing its machinists, pilots and flight attendants
eastern is trying to negotiate a sensible solution with the (international association of machinists) to what has been a long-term cost problem,'' matell said. ``no company can pay baggage handlers an average of $43,000 a year. we are doing everything possible to negotiate a sensible solution with the iam to solve the cost problem
the irresponsible charges made today are not in the best interest of any of the parties, least of all eastern or its very fine group of employees
it's extremely unfortunate that a collective bargaining situation is being used for cheap political games.''
rep. smith said many in congress want to investigate eastern ``to prevent further deterioration'' of the company. pepper said ``there ought to be some way'' the breakup of eastern can be stopped
gephardt supported the call for an investigation of eastern
congress should be concerned about the safety in this airline and should be concerned about some of the actions that have been taken,'' gephardt said. he said recent management decisions at eastern reflect ``the dismantling of a great corporation.''
two soldiers charged with mishandling classified documents were arrested after a teen-ager who claimed to be running drugs for one of them brought a briefcase of papers to a tv station, officials said
the fbi arrested the two soldiers based at the army's fort irwin on wednesday
james weller, agent in charge of the fbi's las vegas office, declined to say what the secret papers contained. he said investigators were trying to determine whether the documents were to be sold, and if so, to whom
a tip to a las vegas tv station from a former mental patient prompted the arrests, weller said
a young man came to our studios ... with a briefcase full of secret documents,'' said lynn mathis, a reporter for station ktnv. ``he told us that he was employed by an army sergeant as a drug runner.''
station news director steve minium said the claimed he was tired of dealing drugs and ``flipped out'' when he found the documents. minium declined to identify the 19-year-old
staff sgt. edmund washington tuck, 24, and specialist 4th class kelly joe schmidt, 23, were arrested and held in the stockade at fort irwin on charges of improper handling of classified documents, weller said
the informant told minium he met tuck in the mental ward of a victorville hospital and later moved in with him in barstow. there he said his job was to run a methamphetamine and lsd trafficking operation for tuck, minium said
agents are investigating the drug-trafficking allegations
fort irwin is in the mojave desert, about 140 miles northeast of downtown los angeles. the army trains soldiers in desert warfare tactics at the base. un vote</head>
the united states is willing to talk about delaying the effective date of an arms embargo against iran in exchange for soviet agreement to have the united nations vote on the issue as soon as possible, a state department official says
the state department official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said friday the proposal is designed to get a speedy vote on the resolution while meeting the kremlin's stated desire for another round of diplomacy aimed at winning a cease-fire in the iran-iraq war
the official said u.s. officials proposed thursday to soviet representatives at the united nations that the united states would be willing to discuss delaying implementation of an embargo from 30 to 60 days
the united states has been pushing the soviets to agree to the embargo but the soviets have been reluctant to implement one without another diplomatic attempt by u.n. secretary-general javier perez de cuellar to get iran to agree to a cease-fire in its seven-year war with iraq
the soviet position has been that any embargo should immediately follow passage of an embargo resolution by the u.n. security council, and therefore such a vote should be delayed to allow time for more diplomatic efforts
meanwhile, the minneapolis star &amp; tribune in today's editions quoted administration officials who said the united states also is willing to discuss with the soviets the creation of a u.n. fleet to stop and search ships suspected of carrying arms to iran
the officials, who were not identified by the newspaper, said the u.n. fleet would not be similar to a soviet proposal that u.s., french, british and other western naval forces in the persian gulf be put under the u.n. flag and command
rather, the arms-monitoring fleet under the u.s. proposal would be made up of ships from neutral countries and would intercept freighters at the mouth of the gulf as they headed for the iranian port of bandar abbas, the newspaper said
the state department official told the associated press that the u.s. position all along has been to discuss proposals that might be used to implement the embargo after passage of the u.n. resolution
the united states has not yet made a specific proposal to the soviets about how the embargo would be enforced, the official said
the security council adopted a resolution july 20 demanding an immediate cease-fire in the iran-iraq war, troop withdrawal, prisoner exchange and enforcement steps if either party did not comply
only iraq has agreed to the cease-fire. an attempt by the secretary-general to bring both sides to agreement foundered in september
any of the five permanent members of the security council _ the united states, the soviet union, great britain, france and china _ could veto an embargo resolution
the soviet union and other nations seeking better relations with iran have been reluctant to push for punitive enforcement
earlier this month, u.s. officials said that china, which they said sold $1 billion worth of arms to iran last year, is not expected to block an embargo
singer michael jackson ordered more flowers than other celebrities who've stayed at the pensacola hilton, including elizabeth taylor and bob hope, and some of the blooms went for vegetarian meals, workers said
when michael left, i went up to the presidential suite to collect the vases and they were everywhere, everywhere,'' said gehrig galloway, owner of gehrig's flower shop at the hilton
i walked into the kitchen once when damien was cooking,'' said thaisa betts-hester, the hotel's room division manager, referring to the chef jackson brought from los angeles. ``damien was cooking with an odd-looking flower with brown petals that he kept in a zip-loc bag. i asked him what was in the bag and he said, `flowers.'''
jackson also ordered 32 cases of evian mineral water for drinking and bathing, baby corn, fresh herbs and sun-dried tomatoes from orlando, hotel employees said
he had a portable dance floor installed in his suite's living room and was a polite guest, although one night he sprayed a can of purple, gooey substance down a hallway, said kathy dyson, the hotel's executive housekeeper
jackson stayed at the hotel for two weeks as he rehearsed for his national concert tour, which began this week in kansas city, mo
david merrick, the impresario behind some of broadway's biggest hits, is returning to theater production in london in may with an australian comedy, ``emerald city.''
the play by david williamson, who also wrote ``sons of cain,'' opens may 9 at lyric theater, merrick's publicists announced friday
it will be merrick's second production in london, where his long-running musical ``42nd street'' opened in 1984
merrick plans to bring ``emerald city,'' a comedy about domestic rivalry that he first saw last november at the sydney opera house, to london with its australian cast intact
merrick's last broadway production, a 1986 revival of joe orton's ``loot,'' was a financial failure but a critical success. among the biggest hits of his new york career were the musicals ``gypsy'' and ``hello, dolly'' and woody allen's comedy ``play it again sam.''
entertainer barbra streisand was named female star of the decade at showest '88, the annual trade show for movie theater owners
sean connery was named male star of the year, and shelley long female comedy star of the year. mark harmon was honored as most promising new male star of the year and anne archer most promising female new star of the year
fatal attraction'' director adrian lyne was named director of the year. don simpson and jerry bruckheimer were named producers of the year
the recipients were honored thursday night at a banquet concluding the three-day convention at bally's hotel
streisand most recently appeared in the movie ``nuts'' with richard dreyfuss
connery was nominated for an oscar for his performance in ``the untouchables,'' and stars with harmon in an upcoming film, ``the presidio.''
long is best known as diane the barmaid from the tv comedy ``cheers.''
archer was nominated for an oscar for her performance in ``fatal attraction.''
singer johnny cash has agreed to appear in a public service announcement to raise money for members of the disbanded nashville symphony, say members of a group called save our symphony
mike karr, a symphony musician and member of a task force examining ways to revive the deficit-ridden symphony, said the players are excited about the fund-raising effort
we're excited that it has happened. it seems especially encouraging that someone like johnny cash has agreed to take part,'' karr said friday
the country singer's script says ``symphony music in music city is in serious trouble,'' and asks for donations to a save our symphony account to help ``keep the music from fading.''
the money will be used to help out-of-work orchestra players put on concerts or, if the symphony's board of directors decides to stage concerts, will be donated to the nashville symphony association, said connie lincoln, an sos committee member
husker du, a critically acclaimed underground band whose latest album, ``warehouse: songs and stories,'' was released by warner bros. last year, has split up
guitarist-songwriter bob mould this week confirmed the breakup and called it ``more amicable than acrimonious.''
drummer grant hart said the split was ``not amicable at all.'' he said he left the trio on dec. 15, a few days after the group's last performance
i found it (husker du) less fun than other musical projects. i couldn't do both husker du and other things because of dictums from the other two members,'' hart said
bassist greg norton was the third member of husker du (pronounced hoo-sker doo), which was formed in 1978 as a punk-rock outlet. among the group's albums were ``zen arcade'' and ``new day rising.''
with great fanfare, the soviet union has begun pulling its nuclear missiles out of east europe, but is still moving with caution on formally approving a superpower treaty to scrap them
the kremlin's double-track approach seems aimed at wringing maximum publicity benefits from the missile withdrawal, while avoiding any commitment to the intermediate-range nuclear forces (inf) treaty before the u.s. senate votes on its ratification
the soviets also have gone public in recent days with accusations that the united states has designs to bust the treaty and that u.s. officials are trying to renege on agreements made at the washington summit in december
soviet president andrei a. gromyko took the rhetoric a step further thursday by claiming progress now depends exclusively on washington in superpower negotiations seeking a 50 percent cut in strategic nuclear arms
gromyko told the hungarian parliament in a speech that whether those negotiations in geneva succeed or fail ``will depend, of course, on how seriously these talks are treated by the united states.''
the medium-range missile treaty signed dec. 8 by president reagan and mikhail s. gorbachev already has been approved by the ruling communist party politburo, but will not go into effect until it is formally ratified by the supreme soviet, the soviet parliament
soviet officials acknowledge their reluctance to commit themselves to the treaty stems from senate refusal to approve the 1979 salt-ii treaty that set limits for strategic nuclear weapons
gromyko, who served as soviet foreign minister for almost three decades, indicated the kremlin leadership feels speedy senate action now is necessary to keep up the momentum on arms control
the world ``is awaiting the ratification of the soviet-american inf treaty,'' gromyko said. ``it is important to avoid a slowing down of the pace of advance in the talks on questions of disarmament.''
during secretary of state george shultz's visit to moscow this week, the superpowers gave their negotiators one month to draft anti-cheating and other key provisions of a strategic arms pact
shultz told reporters it was ``extremely important'' to spur on work in geneva if reagan and gorbachev are to sign the treaty at their fourth summit, planned for may or june in moscow
the 1,500-member supreme soviet, which rubber-stamps decisions made by the party leadership, has consigned the inf treaty to a special subcommittee. there has been no official mention of when it may be ratified
meanwhile, sen. sam nunn, d-ga., chairman of the senate armed services committee, has said the treaty, which bans missiles with ranges from 300 to 3,400 miles, will not be ratified until his panel finishes a line-by-line scrutiny of it
although the ratification process is out of the spotlight in the soviet union, the kremlin has been loudly announcing its most recent moves on disarmament and casting doubts on the intentions of the u.s. government
on thursday, a train loaded with dismantled soviet ss-12 missiles left a town near dresden, east germany, for the soviet union, and soviet troops at hranice, czechoslovakia, began removing shorter-range missiles stationed in there
withdrawal of the ss-12s, mandated by the inf treaty, is being carried out early as ``further evidence of the socialist countries' serious and responsible approach to the task of fully abolishing nuclear weapons,'' the official soviet tass news agency said
radio moscow said in an international news broadcast that the missile pullback is ``widely viewed as a gesture of good will undertaken even before the soviet-american treaty comes into force.''
however, czechoslovakia's state-run ctk news agency quoted the soviet commander in charge of the missiles as saying they would not be destroyed until the treaty is approved. soviet media did not say when the ss-12s would be eliminated
defense secretary frank carlucci and other american officials have said the north atlantic treaty organization needs to modernize its battlefield nuclear weapons to make up for the u.s.-built weapons banned under the inf treaty
soviet foreign ministry spokesman gennady i. gerasimov said sunday, however, that those plans clash with the treaty and called them ``incompatible with the strengthening of european security.''
john-thor dahlburg, a correspondent for the associated press based in moscow, and writes frequently on superpower relations and arms control issues
prince andrew and his wife, sarah, open their 10-day california visit with a hollywood-style welcome from los lobos, the hometown group featured in the hit film ``la bamba.''
after a welcoming ceremony at city hall today, the duke and duchess of york were to be entertained by los lobos
the group was to perform ``la bamba,'' the rollicking spanish song immortalized by ritchie valens, the subject of last summer's movie. valens died in a 1959 plane crash with rockers buddy holly and the big bopper
the royal couple arrived amid tight security in spring-like weather friday, five years to the day after the start of a similar tour by andrew's parents, queen elizabeth ii and prince philip
he's a friendly, outgoing young man and we're happy to have him in our city,'' mayor tom bradley said after welcoming the couple at los angeles international airport
their tour is crammed with receptions, banquets, tours, exhibitions and other official functions
today, the royal pair were to tour chinatown, visit an elementary school, have lunch with bradley, and host a press reception aboard the royal yacht britannia, docked at long beach
security personnel experienced some tense moments friday when they found an abandoned briefcase about a block from where the brittania was docked. a state department bomb unit exploded the attache case
it was no bomb,'' said a british consulate spokeswoman who did not want her name used
the duke and duchess deplaned at a remote section of the airport after an 11-hour flight from london. a red carpet flanked by american and british flags was rolled out to the stairway to the plane
the couple were greeted by bradley, los angeles county supervisor deane dana, british consul general donald ballentyne and their wives
sarah, wearing a black suit, a blue-and-green blouse and a black bow, was handed a bouquet by the mayor's wife, ethel. the prince, wearing a gray suit, waved at reporters and photographers
the couple boarded a black-and-white rolls royce limousine, which quickly departed in a motorcade to long beach
andrew, 28, and his wife, the former sarah ferguson, also 28, will spend much of their time taking part in the uk-la festival, a celebration of british cultural and commercial achievement
gynecologist anthony kenney is traveling with the couple to monitor sarah's first pregnancy. the baby is due in august
the prince, the third child of queen elizabeth ii, was a rollicking bachelor dubbed ``randy andy'' when he visited los angeles four years ago. the trip's most memorable moment came when he turned a paint sprayer on the press corps while visiting a housing project
 
remember edb? four years after the grain fumigant was banned as a possible cancer risk amid panic over contaminated popcorn, breakfast cereal and muffin mix, the public has nearly forgotten it
judy heckman, chief of pesticide disposal for the u.s. environmental protection agency, hasn't. heckman plans to fly to texas to preside at the burning of the last 330,000 gallons of the pesticide early next week
the edb, or ethylene dibromide, to be incinerated was taken from a warehouse and put on a train in liberty, mo., that left last week for an industrial park in deer park outside houston. more trains will leave with the remaining gallons every monday until june, officials said
the federal government paid $2.5 million for what was left of the chemical and may spend up to $8 million to get rid of it, epa officials estimate
it is the costly end of a story of national panic that erupted after edb was discovered in groundwater in florida, georgia, california and hawaii in 1983. worried about its potential to cause cancer, the epa in september 1983 banned the use of edb as a pesticide for spraying on the ground
it was not until feb. 3, 1984, however, that edb was banned as a fumigant for stored grain and limits were set on amounts in foods
although the extent of the cancer risk remains uncertain, edb was banned amid a public outcry that the government was dragging its feet
calls poured in to poison control centers across the country with worried questions about edb
massachusetts authorities ordered tainted baby foods tossed out, and florida's agriculture department had scores of products swept from grocery store shelves
pillsbury co. alone claimed it lost $70 million as a result of what u.s. agriculture secretary john block referred to at the time as ``some hysteria out there that really isn't warranted.''
at the time it was a major environmental catastrophe and now nobody's heard of it,'' said rick johnson, the epa official who headed the federal effort to investigate and eventually ban edb. ``so we must have done something right.''
edb had been widely used on farms and in storage silos since 1948. it was used mainly to kill fungus on stored grains, but also was sprayed on citrus fruits to kill fruit flies and on soil before crops were planted
scientists continued to give it their blessings through the 1950s when they were unable to detect any residue after the chemical evaporated. but when more sensitive detection techniques were developed, they revealed that minute traces of edb were clinging to the wheat and other grains all the way to the supermarket
in 1975, the national cancer institute said the pesticide was suspected of causing cancer in laboratory animals
by 1980 the epa proposed to ban it after studies found the health risks of cancer, genetic damage and reproductive disorders outweighed its economic benefits
johnson said such a risk assessment makes sense for the government, but can be hard to put into perspective for the public
the difficult thing is to explain a very complicated science and policy issue to a naive public,'' he said. ```can i eat this muffin mix?' of course you can eat it.''
others see edb as a case study in government overreaction
stephen klaidman of the institute for health policy analysis at georgetown university in washington is including a chapter on edb in a book he is writing about the influence of the media on public policy
the central question is whether the stuff was taken off the market too quickly before they knew what (pesticides) they were replacing it with (and) whether there was a panic reaction to a chemical that was in the food chain for 30 years,'' klaidman said. ``as far as i know, nobody has been able to connect a single death to edb from ingesting it.''
a man was sentenced to two days in jail and fined $45 for riding a motorized skateboard without a driver's license
damian vincent ghiardi, 21, of richland was convicted tuesday of driving with a revoked license and negligent driving. he ran a stop sign in november on a skateboard powered by a chainsaw motor and was knocked unconscious by a car
defense attorney nathan kirk had argued that the skateboard was not a motor vehicle because ghiardi had to push it a block with his foot to get up speed, but benton county district judge eugene pratt disagreed
prosecutor bob swisher said the case was treated seriously because of the potential for more serious injury
ghiardi's driver's license had been revoked last year when he was convicted of attempting to elude a police officer, court records show
the streets of this city shut down by arab strikes teemed with israeli soldiers as the muezzin called the faithful to pray on the moslem sabbath. the soldiers waited for the inevitable violence
noon prayers every friday have surpassed religious significance since palestinians in the occupied west bank and gaza strip began their protests 11 weeks ago. mosques have become the rallying point for dissent and the release of pent-up frustrations
the latest violence came at the al-omari mosque in gaza on friday, as it did elsewhere in the territories. and, as expected, the soldiers wasted little time breaking up the demonstration, responding to the stone-throwing with tear gas and rubber bullets
this time, there were no injuries a al-omari, the main mosque in gaza city, capital of the territory snatched from egypt during the 1967 middle east war. the building was erected by the romans and later transformed into a mosque
friday's sermon by khamis murtaja, a lecturer at the islamic university in gaza, was moderate. a worshipper whispered to a visitor seated discreetly in the rear of the mosque that murtaja, like other speakers, has been warned by israeli authorities to avoid inflammatory rhetoric
murtaja's sermon to several hundred listeners called for patience and prayer in the face of the current difficulties
god will help those who remain patient,'' he said. ``it is a test of their faith. if we cannot remove injustice by force, we must be patient. don't despair. don't complain. the solution comes only from god. if you complain to other than god, it is submission.''
but as murtaja called for moderation, leaflets signed by the fundamentalist islamic jihad organization were being circulated in the mosque. their message was vastly different
the land of palestine is the center of the struggle and the essence of the universal conflict,'' said the leaflet from islamic jihad, whose influence has been growing, particularly in the gaza strip
the salvation of the arab people, in particular the palestinian people, and the salvation of all human beings is related to the destruction of this hateful, racist entity,'' the leaflet said, refering to israel
it called on the people to escalate the fight against israel, saying ``the mosques must be transformed into centers of confrontation.''
the moment the prayers were over, dozens of youths rose to their feet shouting ``allahu akhbar,'' arabic for ``god is great,'' and dash for the exit
outside they picked up stones and pelted the nearest group of soldiers, shouting taunts and curses
the soldiers charged, firing tear gas canisters and rubber bullets. the youths scattered, darting into the myriad of sidestreets and alleys. the army declared the area a closed military zone until calm is restored
army vehicles raced up and down the streets, three abreast, chasing demonstrators. a woman ran down a main avenue waving her arms and screaming: ``they have seized two mosques.''
it is not true. at least not here. but numerous witnesses said soldiers raided a mosque in the nearby jabaliya refugee camp, where one palestinian youth died and about 20 injured in the clashes
new york gov. mario cuomo, insisting he doesn't want to play the role of presidential candidate or kingmaker if there's a brokered national convention, headed for north carolina today to help a fellow democrat
against the backdrop of brokered convention talk, cuomo was to appear twice over the next several days in an area of the nation that could be very important to democrats come november
tonight, cuomo was to be in raleigh, n.c., as the featured speaker at a fund-raising event for sen. terry sanford. on tuesday, cuomo is to be in san antonio, texas, for an address at trinity university
was it coincidence that cuomo was heading south just before the crucial march 8 super tuesday primaries?
oh no, that's a plan,'' joked cuomo on friday. ``you see, i'm going to be march 1 in texas and if it really goes well, then march 2 i'm going to announce i'm running.''
the new york governor, the most prominent of the democratic non-candidates, said friday that he still didn't believe there would be a deadlocked convention
i would have no role,'' cuomo said of a possible brokered convention. ``they (the announced candidates) would confine themselves to people who were candidates and talk to one another.''
pittsburgh mayor richard caliguiri has endorsed massachusetts gov. michael dukakis for the democratic nomination for president
as the only democratic candidate for president who has ever managed a large government, mike dukakis has balanced nine straight budgets and cut taxes in four of the last five years while transforming his state into one of the models of economic success in america,'' caliguiri said friday
allegheny county commissioner pete flaherty and erie mayor louis tullio were among other pennsylvania democrats who announced their support for dukakis on friday
the coordinator of democrat paul simon's presidential campaign in oklahoma says she hasn't been paid in a while, but the organization will continue to operate
glo henley says the simon campaign is ``not going to be doing anything that requires great supplies of money. we won't do a lot of long-distance calling.''
she said it's been awhile since she's seen a paycheck from the campaign, but ``i would continue working for him whether i got paid or not.''
the illinois senator has announced that he can't afford to campaign in the 20 states scheduled for the march 8 super tuesday presidential primary
ms. henley said she has not changed her assessment of simon's chances in oklahoma, saying she still would be happy to see him garner 15 percent of the vote
despite its religious overtones, a new book telling the spiritual side of vice president george bush is not intended to counter pat robertson's challenge in the gop presidential race, the publisher says
we want people to know that george bush is a christian but he's more than a christian. he has great political experience,'' bob hawkins sr., president of harvest house publishers, said friday
based on interviews with bush and his family, ``man of integrity'' is being rushed into print in time for the super tuesday primaries and caucuses on march 8. the 224-page book will roll off the presses monday
it was a typical operatic tale _ a crisis night with a storybook ending at the royal opera, covent garden
the lead singer felt terrible but sang on bravely
the second lead singer had a triumph, although he had never sung his role before when he was summoned to london at short notice
when the first-night revival of giuseppe verdi's ``a masked ball'' ended friday night, it was cheers from a grateful audience and nine curtain calls for cast and conductor
the story went like this:
italian baritone giorgio zancanaro, who was booked for the second lead, fell ill with an ear infection which upset his sense of balance and prevented him from traveling
so romanian alexandru agache, who had never even sung in a major opera house in the west took over, learning the role in just over two weeks
i think this is the start of a big international career for him,'' said conductor richard armstrong
spanish tenor giacomo aragall had a valiant night
he also had an ear infection _ and bronchitis. but he got on with the job and sang well, wavering at times, but hanging in there even with his voice breaking in the last act
what a night,'' said sir john tooley, just retired director at covent garden, when he called at agache's dressing-room to congratulate him
the human voice tends to be a recurring crisis. it causes opera house managements the most awful headaches,'' tooley said
opera is full of problems, some of which you can deal with away from the public gaze. but opera is the voice and a voice crisis means you have got the public out front and the whole performance to worry about _ your crisis is very visible,'' tooley said
you were stunning,'' tooley told agache. ``you coped brilliantly with the acting and the singing.''
you are very kind,'' murmured the romanian, a big man with a black beard, dripping sweat after the biggest test of his life
aragall had a big problem, but he said he felt all right and went on with it, but he sang under extreme difficulties all evening,'' tooley said
agache, 33, lives in cluj, in the heart of romania's transylvanian country. he has sung in budapest, dresden, east berlin, japan, yugoslavia and france, and was expecting to make his debut later this year in a major western opera house, la scala in milan. but covent garden got in first
agache auditioned at covent garden on jan. 19 and sang some verdi arias
he was recognized as having outstanding potential as a verdian baritone. he absolutely thrilled me as a singer,'' armstrong recalled
two days later, agache was in leghorn, italy, when his agent in frankfurt telephoned to say london wanted him as the ``perfect replacement'' for zancanaro
i sang a minor role in `a masked ball' in my debut with cluj opera, but i had to start learning the major role of anckarstrom for covent garden,'' agache said
he joined the rehearsals in london feb. 9
in the opera, anckarstrom is the secretary and friend of king gustavus iii of sweden, sung by aragall
the secretary, burning with jealousy after discovering his wife and the king are in love, joins a group of conspirators and stabs the king to death at a masked ball
in history, the king _ one of the great rulers of the 18th century _ was assassinated in 1792 at a masquerade in the stockholm opera house. he was shot in the back by a former royal bodyguard named anckarstrom
the assassin had his pistol hand cut off before he was beheaded and his body quartered. but verdi spared opera lovers and ended with the king dying, ordering his assassin's release and pardoning the conspirators
it's a difficult role because you have to marry very dramatic acting and a big vocal part,'' agache said
but it's a wonderful role, one of the great baritone parts, and a pleasure to sing,'' he added
verdi and ``a masked ball'' are much loved in london, which has a vibrant and wealthy italian community. the house was crowded
the pentagon says the remains of what may be 20 american servicemen missing from the vietnam war are to be delivered to u.s. officials in hanoi on wednesday and then transported to an army identification laboratory in hawai
the pentagon announced friday that the vietnamese government had agreed to repatriate the remains, which will be taken to the central identification laboratory in honolulu for identification
it will be the fourth-largest such transfer since the end of the war. the largest occurred in august 1985, when the vietnamese returned 26 remains at once
a u.s. trade official says the failure of foreign governments to crack down on foreign piracy of u.s. patents, trademarks and copyrights is a growing problem that distorts interrnational trade
u.s. trade representative clayton yeutter said friday that the annual drain on u.s. companies because of ``inadequate protection of intellectual property'' may run as high as $43 billion to $61 billion
the failure of our trading partners to provide effective protection for intellectual property is a severe and growing problem that distorts trade,'' yeutter said at a news conference
the u.s. international trade commission released a report at the news conference that said u.s. companies surveyed by the government reported losses of $23.8 billion in foreign piracy. the itc said actual losses are much greater because not all companies filled out questionaires on the subject
the air force says it plans to hold special meetings for residents living near 11 bases selected to handle rail-mounted mx missiles in order to ``identify environmental issues.''
the service announced a year ago it had selected f.e. warren air force base in wyoming to become the main operating base for any rail-mounted mx missiles and 10 other bases for consideration as additional ``rail garrisons.''
the service said friday it had launched an environmental impact study of the bases and that it would review a number of deployment alternatives, including the fielding of 100 mx missiles on rail cars instead of just 50 missiles
besides f.e. warren, the list includes blytheville air force base, ark.; little rock air force base, ark.; whiteman air force base, mo.; barksdale air force base, la.; dyess air force base, texas; fairchild air force base, wash.; grand forks air force base, n.d.; minot air force base, n.d.; malstrom air force base, mont., and wurtsmith air force base, mich
a fourth cia official involved in the iran-contra weapons deals is leaving the agency
alan fiers, who established a secret supply network for nicaragua's contra rebels, has resigned effective march 4, bill baker, the agency's spokesman, said friday
fiers, who plans to go into private business, was one of several cia officials involved in the iran-contra affair who was reprimanded last year by cia director william webster because of his role and his failure to inform congress about the activity
despite that disciplinary action, fiers had continued to handle central american matters and had briefed members of congress as part of the reagan administration's efforts to win renewed military aid for the contras
most latin american governments expressed support for eric arturo delvalle's failed attempt to fire military strongman, gen. manuel antonio noriega, which cost delvalle the presidency of panama
nicaragua and cuba appeared alone among latin american nations in announcing their support for noriega, whose backers in panama's national assembly ousted delvalle early friday after he tried to dismiss the general
ending a three-day meeting in cartagena, colombia, the foreign ministers of seven latin american countries said they had suspended panama from their group of eight, a regional organization for political and economic cooperation
the foreign ministers of argentina, brazil, colombia, mexico, peru, uruguay and venezuela said in a communique that the suspension was ordered because participation in the group requires ``the clear operation of democratic institutions among members.''
the communique said the suspension would last ``until a new evaluation of the circumstances'' in panama, where noriega controls the 15,000-man military and police as defense forces chief
in managua, president daniel ortega on friday pledged ``unconditional solidarity'' with noriega, who was indicted on drug trafficking charges in florida earlier this month
ortega said the general's problems began when ``the united states government arrived and told gen. noriega: `gen. noriega, we need you to support us in an invasion against the nicaraguan people' and gen. noriega and the defense forces of panama said no.''
panama helped the leftist sandinistas in their guerrilla war against the nicaraguan government of president anastasio somoza, who was ousted in july 1979. noriega, considered the real power behind panama's civilian government, was instrumental in the effort
in havana, the cuban foreign ministry issued a statement blaming the situation on an alleged u.s. campaign aimed at extending u.s. control of the panama canal, the cuban news agency prensa latina said in a dispatch monitored friday in mexico city
under a 1977 treaty with the united states, panama is to take over the canal and its defense in 1999
in washington, white house spokesman marlin fitzwater said friday that the united states was not considering military intervention in panama, where the u.s. southern command and its 10,000 troops are based
in a statement, the venezuelan government expressed support for delvalle's dismissal order of noriega and called on panama's armed forces to respect it
the venezuelan government reaffirms its unequivocal position on the respect that the military forces in panama owe to the civilian power, as dictated by panama's constitution,'' said the brief communique issued in caracas
in a brief statement, the argentine government said friday it ``would like to make publicly known its solidarity with president eric delvalle.''
el salvador's vice president, rodolfo castillo claramount, called delvalle's ouster ``nothing more than a simple and vulgar coup d'etat carried out by a group of military gorillas headed by noriega.''
castillo calamount told a news conference friday that the salvadoran government ``is seriously considering the possibility of suspending diplomatic relations with the new panamanian government.''
a last-minute plea by gov. evan mecham's new defense team failed to win a delay in his impeachment trial as the arizona supreme court refused to intercede
the four justices who heard his appeal for an emergency stay friday cited constitutional separation of powers in refusing to intervene in the trial scheduled to begin in the state senate monday
however, they said they would consider a more detailed request during the court's regular conference tuesday
senate minority leader alan stephens, a democrat, predicted the justices would not interfere with the nation's first impeachment trial of a governor in half a century
the court's rebuff to mecham capped a turbulent day for the first-term republican governor, who also faces criminal charges of concealing a $350,000 campaign loan
first, mecham's chief lawyer, murray miller of phoenix, disclosed he had resigned. he said jerris leonard, a washington lawyer and former assistant attorney general under president nixon, was taking charge
we brought in a number of new people and murray chose to leave,'' mecham told the associated press friday night. ``we parted as friends. i've got the best of representation.''
leonard and another addition to the defense team, thomas crowe, promptly launched a last-ditch effort to win a delay that the senate had refused to grant wednesday night
by late friday afternoon, they had filed a stack of legal documents with the supreme court, and the emergency hearing was granted
crowe argued that the governor's constitutional right to due process would be violated if the senate judged him before a jury trial scheduled to begin march 22 on the criminal charges. the arizona civil liberties union filed a friend-of-the-court brief making the same argument
the justices immediately expressed concern about breaching the separation of judicial and legislative powers
even if i agreed with everything you said in your papers,'' said vice chief justice stanley feldman, ``what jurisdiction does this court have to tell the senate what to do in a job that the constitution says should be done by the senate and not the judiciary?''
feldman presided in place of chief justice frank x. gordon, who recused himself because the state constitution requires him to preside over the impeachment trial
attorney john lundin, representing the senate, told the justices: ``you are being asked to enter an arena that has never been entered into by any court in this nation.'' he said they should decline to take that step
mecham was impeached feb. 5 on a 46-14 house vote, forcing him to turn over power temporarily to secretary of state rose mofford
several days later, the house approved 23 impeachment articles, charging mecham with concealing the $350,000 loan to his 1986 campaign, misusing $80,000 from the governor's protocol fund by lending it to his auto dealership, and trying to thwart an investigation of an alleged death threat by a state official
miller, who had represented mecham since october, bowed out abruptly. at first he would not say why, but later expressed bitterness at the way leonard had walked into his office early in the week and announced that mecham had hired him to take over the case
he said leonard, who entered the case tuesday, told him he could not begin such a complex case by monday because ``that would be malpractice.'' but he said leonard later changed his mind
on friday night, leonard and crowe filed a certification with the senate that they are ready to proceed
among those opposing leonard's participation in the case were partners of his own law firm. he was forced to resign from the prestigious washington firm of manatt, phelps, rothenberg, tunney and evans because of his decision to represent mecham
charles t. manatt, senior partner in the firm and a former democratic national committee chairman, said the firm wasn't interested in representing mecham for ``lots of reasons,'' but would not elaborate
sikh extremists were suspected fo killing a hindu police investigator early today and seven members of a sikh family, police in punjab state said
the sikh family was murdered friday night at their farmhouse in the village of talwandi chamchuk, about 25 miles west of amritsar, by six sikh men armed with automatic rifles, said amritsar district chief of police izhar alam
the united news of india news agency quoted unidentified police sources as saying the family apparently refused to pay extortion money to members of the khalistan liberation force, one the of sikh underground separatist groups
khalistan is what the extremists call the independent sikh homeland they have been fighting to establish in the northern indian state since 1982
the victims were identified as pirana singh, 55, his wife, surinder, 50, two sons and two daughters and a visiting relative
the hindu police investigator, jeewan lal, was killed near the town of ludhiana, southeast of amritsar, police said
the latest slayings raised to at least 304 the number of people killed this year in attacks blamed on sikh extremists. nearly two-thirds of the victims have been sikhs
last year, more than 1,000 people were killed in punjab by the militants
sikhs, whose religion is an offshoot of hinduism, claim they are discriminated against by india's hindu majority. sikhs comprise about 2 percent of india's 800 million population but are a majority in punjab

here is a list of the political stories that have moved for this cycle:

on the budget:

atlanta _ the democratic presidential candidates put aside their divisions for talk of party unity and a bid for support in the south before going at one another again today in a debate. republican george bush turned up the heat on pat robertson for making ``ridiculous'' allegations about him
slug pm-political rdp. a0418

in other stories:

washington _ president reagan and southern republican state chairmen did some talking about prospects of attracting conservative democrats to vote gop in the super tuesday presidential primary balloting
slug pm-reagan-super tuesday. a0419

miami _ an eastern airlines spokesman says democratic presidential candidate richard gephardt was playing ``cheap political games'' when he criticized the attitude of company management
slug pm-gephardt-eastern. a0427

portland, maine _ pat robertson's insurgents battled to a tie in portland and won a clear victory in caribou as maine republicans kicked off a weekend of local caucuses, but george bush appeared to add to his commanding lead in state convention delegates
slug pm-maine gop. a0441. with bc-maine at-a-glance. a0426

with:
pm-candidates-schedules. a0416
pm-politics-quotes. a0417
pm-political briefs. a0445
---cuomo the non-candidate heads south
---pittsburgh mayor backs dukakis
---simon campaign without money in oklahoma
---new book telling bush's religious side being rushed into print
a popular television actor says he can take his toupe off now that chun doo-hwan is no longer president
park yong-shik, 44, said friday he was forced to wear a hairpiece during chun's seven-year term because he looks strikingly like the balding former president, who was succeeded thursday by roh tae-woo
park said he was banned from appearing on state-run television in 1981 without explanation. park said he found out later it was because he resembled the 57-year-old chun
in 1982, park said, his proposal to wear a toupe and grow a beard to change his appearance was accepted. however, he lost important roles in soap operas and other programs and only received minor parts in historical dramas
i hope such a comic thing will never happen again,'' park said
federal indictments alleging a cuban role in cocaine shipments from colombia marked the third time in recent months that the caribbean island nation has been linked to the narcotics network
the two indictments unsealed friday charged 17 people with smuggling cocaine into florida through a cuban military base, and a federal drug official said the operation apparently had official cooperation
nine defendants had been arrested by friday night, said jack hook, a drug enforcement administration spokesman
cuban president fidel castro's name surfaced in the indictment earlier this month of panamanian strongman gen. maneul antonio noriega. last october, members of a similar drug ring allegedly operating in part through cuba were indicted here
in an interview broadcast on nbc-tv thursday, castro denied there is drug trafficking of any type in his nation, calling cuba ``the cleanest country in the world.''
the evidence in the latest indictment ``does not make a statement that the cuban government has an official policy of assisting drug traffickers,'' said jack. ``what it does say is that when a drug-trafficking, private, light aircraft lands on a military base in cuba and the cocaine is offloaded and placed onto boats destined for the u.s., it is quite clear that somebody on that base in an official capacity is involved.''
the indictments, returned earlier this week by a grand jury here, make no mention of involvement by cuban government officials, said ana barnett, a spokeswoman for the u.s. attorney's office
one indictment charges five people, the other 12
the indictments described four cocaine loads totaling 3,800 pounds. two came through cuba in april and may, one through haiti in october and one through the bahamas. the date of the bahamas shipment was not available
this does not indict or name or allegedly name any cuban officials,'' said hook. ``but it is significant in proving that cuba is most definitely being used as a transshipment point for colombian cocaine destined for the united states.''
hook said he had no information on how far that involvement goes in cuban government
one defendant told an informant that he could arrange cuban coast guard escorts for drug boats leaving cuban waters for florida, he said
hook said the indictment shows that cuba, even with its strict security, is as susceptible to drug trafficking as are other caribbean nations, such as the bahamas and haiti
in october, police broke up a ring that allegedly smuggled drugs into the united states through cuba and other caribbean islands. federal officials said there was no evidence of cuban government involvement
the indictment of noriega charged that castro was aware of the panamanian's drug activities and mediated a dispute over bribe money between noriega and colombia's medellin drug cartel. castro denied those allegations in the nbc interview
nbc also reported thursday that u.s. officials say they have solid evidence that cuban mig fighters and cuban coast guard boats have escorted and protected cocaine shipments on their way from colombia to the florida keys through cuba
authorities charged a fourth american soldier with smuggling cocaine to the united states aboard a u.s. military plane from panama
richard mark williams was charged friday before u.s. magistrate roberto schmidt monge in san juan with smuggling, possession and possession with intent to distribute 17 pounds of cocaine
he was brought from panama to puerto rico on friday, authorities said. his age, rank and hometown were not given
authorities said the cocaine was among 77 pounds confiscated jan. 30 during a u.s. customs service inspection of a u.s. military air command plane traveling from howard air force base in panama to the united states
the plane had stopped for refueling at the u.s. roosevelt roads naval station in northwestern puerto rico, a u.s. commonwealth
williams became the fifth person, four of whom are american soldiers, to be arrested and charged after the cocaine was found on the plane
if convicted, williams could be sentenced to up to 40 years in prison
federal officials said they were seeking one other american, stationed in panama, in the same investigation
information about the case was limited because indictments against the suspects were sealed in u.s. district court in san juan
williams was detained in panama, escorted by military personnel on a commercial flight and arrested by fbi and drug enforcement administration agents on arrival at luis munoz marin international airport in san juan, according to court sources who spoke on condition of anonymity
two other u.s. soldiers facing federal charges of possessing and importing 17 pounds of cocaine on the jan. 30 flight pleaded innocent thursday at their arraignment in the district court
the two, darrin taylor, 19, of chicago, and franklyn milton browne, 19, of far rockaway, n.y., were arrested jan. 30 along with another soldier, bruce morris mack, 20, of gary, ind., and rafael a. valladares, 29, a panamanian, who officials said was carrying false documents identifying him as a u.s. soldier
valladares, a civilian, was dressed in a u.s. army uniform and had dogtags and army travel orders when arrested
valladares and mack were working independently of the other two suspects and of each other, according to arthur barnes, assistant special agent in charge of the dea office in san juan
the san juan star, citing unidentified official sources, reported friday that one american had established drug contacts in panama shortly before or after being discharged from the army and the other had supplied members of a drug ring with bogus travel orders and military identification papers
it quoted the sources as saying one of the men had established contacts with panama's military chief, gen. manuel antonio noriega, who is under indictment in the united states on drug trafficking charges
the authorities now think that the ring had been using military aircraft for at least a year, making weekly trips to the u.s. with the drugs,'' the star reported
it said the ring used fake travel orders, and the men who would transport the drugs would leave on fridays from howard air force base and travel to south carolina and texas, where the narcotics were unloaded. the carriers would be back on the howard base by monday, before they could be declared absent without leave, the newspaper said
a 36-year-old east german man fled uninjured over the heavily fortified border to west germany by climbing fences under cover of darkness, border police said
the man crossed the frontier late thursday near the west german community of philippsthal, 90 miles northeast of frankfurt, said border police in kassel. the escapee was not identified
at least 17 people have fled over east germany's border with west germany and the communist-constructed berlin wall since jan. 1, according to west german officials
senior leader deng xiaoping, who has criticized the personality cult that surrounded mao tse-tung, is the subject of a government-published biography that includes 500 photographs dating back to 1921
among the pictures, half of which are being published for the first time, are shots taken by deng's daughter when mao exiled deng to the countryside during the 1966-76 cultural revolution, the official china daily said today
deng, 83, was branded a capitalist during the upheaval but came back after mao's death in 1976 to steer china on a course of market-oriented reform and opening to the outside world that has significantly improved living standards
the 304-page book, compiled by the official xinhua news agency and the communist party's department on party literature, was described as the most complete and accurate introduction of deng printed in china
the book also contains wartime photos of deng with his wife zhou lin and pictures of him playing billiards and cards, swimming and mountain climbing
more than 250 people, including politburo standing committee member hu qili, gathered at the great hall of the people friday evening to celebrate publication of the book, china daily said
deng, who has cut down his public appearances since retiring from most of his top posts last fall, did not attend the party. although in semi-retirement, he is still regarded as china's most powerful politician
the book has been published in chinese and english, with french, japanese and german editions to come out later
the celebrated case of a wealthy chinese peasant who bought a cropduster for his village has become a tale of woe with the revelation today that the plane never has been used by the farmers
guo yuanying of central henan province bought the ``bee-3'' model ultralight aircraft for $7,258 in april 1984 to help neighbors in spraying pesticides and fertilizer, china's domestic china news service reported
china's official xinhua news agency said at the time that guo, then 37, was the country's first peasant to buy an airplane, drawing from his textile accessory factory's hefty profits
that report said the local government planned to send three peasants to the beijing aeronautical engineering institute to learn to fly and would build a small airfield
but today's report said the local government did not have the money and that the airplane remained at the zhengzhou airport for two years before being donated to a tourist resort near the yellow river, where it has languished in a warehouse
the domestic news service noted that guo's village is in a region plagued by locusts and asked, ``why is it so difficult to utilize modern technology?''
problems forced an army helicopter to land twice before it crashed in a north texas cow pasture, killing 10 soldiers and seriously burning eight, witnesses said
the chinook ch-47d helicopter had been on a routine transport flight from fort hood in central texas to fort sill, okla., when it crashed thursday near chico
the helicopter landed immediately after takeoff from fort hood when pilot ronald w. bender reported that a ``fault light'' on his instrument panel had come on, base spokesman mike miller said
after checking the helicopter, bender again received clearance to take off, and left the base, miller said. the spokesman said it was not unusual for pilots to land to check out warning lights
about 20 minutes later, the helicopter landed near cranfills gap about 45 miles north of fort hood on land owned by rancher john david abdnor
abdnor said the aircraft's engines stopped. he said the helicopter was on the ground about 20 minutes before lifting off and heading north
they opened up the engine on the right side of the back end,'' said capt. calvin turner of killeen, who survived the crash. ``we got back in, strapped up, started flying and all of a sudden we heard a lot of noise
smoke started coming out. we all ran up to the cab (in the front). there was a lot of black smoke, and that's all i remember.''
the seven remaining chinooks at fort sill were grounded and inspections ordered before they can be returned to service, base spokesman richard brown said
investigators were tight-lipped friday on the cause of the crash
we don't have any information about what happened on board. what we're telling ... is that the army is investigating the crash, but anything else i tell you would be either rumor or speculation,'' said fort hood spokesman capt. michael monett
the army just does not discuss an ongoing investigation,'' he said
a pentagon source who asked that his name not be used said army officials had been told ``there was some maintenance work done on the ground after the chinook landed at fort hood.''
but whether that's germane to anything remains to be seen,'' the official added. ``the investigators will have to check into that. there's no indication yet that mechanics worked on something at hood that later could have caused a fire.''
monett said the probe could take a year
seven men, including bender, died at the scene, including one of two soliders who leaped from the flaming aircraft before it crashed
two of the injured were in critical condition today at brooke army medical center in san antonio, three at parkland hospital in dallas were in stable condition, and two at harris methodist hospital were in serious but stable condition, officials said. the eighth was picked up by an army ambulance from bridgeport hospital in wise county
no orders have been issued to ground the entire fleet of ch-47s, said maj. phil soucy, an army spokesman at the pentagon
the army grounded its entire fleet of 63 chinooks for 1{ months in 1985 after an accident in honduras injured eight soldiers. the ch-47d, which has a troop capacity of 44, is a modernized version of the craft used heavily in vietnam
the following is a list of the dead and injured in the crash of a twin-rotor ch-47d chinook near chico, as provided by fort sill, okla., and fort hood, texas, officials
1. 1st lt. wayne m. locklin, 24, new jersey
2. sgt. 1st class kenneth r. simpson, 36, honeygrove, texas
3. capt. michael j. monahan, 35, kingston, pa
4. 1st lt. donald g. o'quinn, 24, purvis, miss
5. 1st lt. christopher d. kurkowski, 23, miles city, mont
6. 1st lt. charles p. moses, 24, dallas
7. 1st lt. lynn dial, 31, no home of record
8. staff sgt. raymond t. hill, 31, of new baltimore, mich
9. chief warrant officer 4 ronald w. bender, 40, of rockville centre, n.y
10.chief warrant officer 4 scott j. temple, 43, of irving, texas
1. sgt. 1st class jerry cook, 36, jacksonville, texas
2. staff sgt. rafael adame, 27, san antonio, texas
3. staff sgt. paul stroud, 26, no home of record
4. capt. calvin turner, 30, killeen, texas
5. 1st lt. richard fields, 25, clemonton, n.j
6. 1st lt. steven l. casteel, 26, arkansas
7. sgt. 1st class frank a. prater, 33, daytona beach, fla
8. spec. 4 paul g. patricio, 20, seattle church</head>
the decision by leaders of jimmy swaggart's denomination to have louisiana officials rethink their proposed three-month suspension of the tv evangelist has increased pressure on the church, a spokeswoman says
the longer it goes without reaching a conclusion, the more questions we have from our own members and our pastors,'' assemblies of god spokeswoman juleen turnage said friday. `it creates a hardship on that pastor of the local church, whose congregation is saying `hey, what's going on and why is this taking so long?'''
swaggart tearfully confessed to unspecified sins from his pulpit sunday in baton rouge, la., and an admitted prostitute said in interviews this week that she had performed lewd acts for swaggart for about a year
g. raymond carlson, general superintendent of the springfield-based assemblies of god, the nation's largest pentecostal denomination with 2 million u.s. members, refused friday to say what penalty the church recommended for swaggart
cbs news reported that the church's executive presbyery told leaders of the louisiana district to order swaggart to step down for a year. the network cited no sources for the report
church executives met here for 11 hours over two days to consider a tougher penalty after many members called assemblies of god headquarters to complain that a three-month suspension from preaching was too lenient. the louisiana council also recommended swaggart receive counseling during a two-year rehabilitation
mrs. turnage said the headquarters was still receiving hundreds of phone calls from people ``asking questions, voicing opinions. people that are hurting, needing prayer, counseling and comfort. we're anxious for that to get behind us too.''
once the louisiana district has reviewed the swaggart case, the executive presbytery will take it up again, carlson said, adding a final decision could be several days or weeks away
church officials say no other minister accused of moral misconduct has been allowed to return to preaching in so short a time as three months
critics have noted that three members of the board of jimmy swaggart world ministries and swaggart's co-pastor are on the assemblies state governing council, which receives financial support from the evangelist's organization
council member f.c. chamberlain of shreveport said friday that the state leaders felt swaggart's case should be handled differently ``when he made a complete confession.''
chamberlain acknowledged that he was a close friend of swaggart's for many years, but denied any favoritism. ``i would like to think this district would want to do what is right for everyone,'' he said
swaggart, who has not appeared in public or commented since his confession, reaches around the world with broadcast sermons and contributes $12 million a year to the foreign missions programs of the assemblies of god
it is the second time in a year that the assemblies of god considered disciplinary measures against a prominent minister caught in a scandal. last year, ptl founder jim bakker lost his assemblies credentials after it was disclosed he had had sex with a woman other than his wife and then tried to pay her to keep silent. bakker rejected a rehabilitation proposal
mrs. turnage said the swaggart case is the most complex ever for the executive presbytery because of the many facets of swaggart's ministry, including gospel albums, bible study tapes and television tapes
`in the past, preaching meant going into the pulpit,'' she said. but with swaggart, ``is his singing going to be considered preaching? i don't know.''
snow fell in sections of the midwest and east today, while rain was widely scattered in the west
snow showers were scattered across the lower great lakes region, upper ohio valley and middle and northern atlantic coast
an advisory was in effect in parts of south central new york state for up to 5 inches of snow today
rain was scattered across california, arizona, new mexico and southwest texas
skies were mostly cloudy from the pacific coast states through arizona to the southern plains, and were partly cloudy over the lower mississippi valley and southeast. fair skies prevailed across most of the rest of the nation
today's forecast called for snow across the eastern great lakes region and much of new england, and for scattered rain across the lower rio grande valley, southern texas and central mountains of arizona
highs were expected to be in the 20s across the northern great lakes and the northern half of new england; 30s and 40s from the eastern dakotas through the upper mississippi and ohio valleys into southern new england; 70s across central and southern california, from central and southern oklahoma into texas and the lower mississippi valley and in the southern atlantic coast and florida; low to mid-80s in southern arizona; and 50s to 60s across most of the rest of the nation
temperatures around the nation at 2 a.m. est ranged from 2 degrees at st. johnsbury, vt., to 66 at brownsville and corpus christi, texas
other reports:
_east: atlanta 44 fair; boston 28 cloudy; buffalo 31 cloudy; charleston, s.c., 37 fair; cincinnati 40 fair; cleveland 36 fair; detroit 30 fair; miami 53 partly cloudy; new york 30 cloudy; philadelphia 33 cloudy; pittsburgh 38 cloudy; portland 16 fair; washington 32 cloudy
_central: bismarck 29 fair; chicago 37 partly cloudy; dallas-fort worth 57 cloudy; denver 33 fair; des moines 34 fair; indianapolis 39 cloudy; kansas city 39 fair; minneapolis-st. paul 31 fair; nashville 54 fair; new orleans 51 fair; st. louis 45 fair
_west: albuquerque 57 cloudy; anchorage 22 cloudy; las vegas 62 cloudy; los angeles 65 partly cloudy; phoenix 61 fair; salt lake city 33 fair; san diego 65 fair; san francisco 58 foggy; seattle 45 fair
_canada: montreal 14 fair; toronto 28 snow
gov. evan mecham's new impeachment defense lawyer, jerris leonard, says he's used to representing controversial clients _ and this time around he has had only a week to prepare
leonard, a washington attorney and former head of the law enforcement assistance administration, joined mecham's defense team monday, a week before the embattled republican governor's scheduled senate trial
leonard suddenly became the lead attorney in the case thursday when mecham's original lawyer, murray miller, turned in his resignation
leonard took the mecham job at a price _ his job in the law firm of manatt, phelps, rothenberg, tunney &amp; evan. charles manatt, a senior partner in the firm and former chairman of the democratic national committee, said leonard was told the firm did not want to represent mecham, and leonard resigned
i just don't think lawyers should be inhibited from taking cases because of the politics of them,'' leonard said friday. ``the history of my practice has been to represent controversial matters.''
if he (mecham) feels he wants me, he should be entitled to have the lawyer of his choice,'' he said
at the moment we're under tremendous pressure'' to prepare the case by monday, leonard said
the attorney has been relatively close-mouthed since arriving in phoenix early in the week. when he confirmed tuesday that he had been hired, he said he was enthusiastic in taking on the governor's case and promised to present a strong defense
leonard, a former wisconsin senate majority leader, headed the u.s. justice department's civil rights division and the leaa under president nixon
one of his first clients was howard ``bo'' calloway, chairman of president ford's 1976 presidential campaign, who was accused of pressuring the u.s. forest service to speed up an environmental impact statement on a ski area in which he held an interest. calloway was acquitted
during those hearings, leonard became friends with fred craft, then an interior department staff lawyer and now a close friend of mecham's. craft was mecham's washington lobbyist, hired over the state legislature's objections, and he brought leonard into the governor's case
leonard also represented retired boxer muhammad ali in a $50 million lawsuit against the government over ali's 1967 draft-evasion prosecution
another leonard client was underworld figure allen dorfman, who was executed gangland-style in 1983 just before he was to start serving a prison term for receiving kickbacks
leonard himself was accused by the federal government of engaging in an illegal pyramid-type scheme to sell vitamins through a company he headed, united sciences of america. the company agreed in an october settlement to pay $105,000 in civil penalties and $35,000 in attorneys' fees
some arizona lawmakers said they were impressed with leonard's first argument before the senate on wednesday, when he requested a delay in the impeachment trial
leonard referred to his years as a wisconsin legislator and warned senators they must think about protecting their own dignity. ``don't make a mockery out of this trial,'' he said in arguing that he and mecham's other lawyers needed more time to prepare
assistant senate minority leader lela alston, a democrat, said she thought leonard was effective
i'm sure he'll get up to speed quickly,'' predicted minority leader alan stephens
leonard has not said why few people _ and not even miller _ were informed that another lawyer might be brought in until after he was hired. but he insisted tuesday, ``we're not trying to hide anything.''
leonard said he believes mecham has a strong case
if i thought that he had no opportunity to prevail and be vindicated i'd say, `governor, why go through it? resign,''' he said
a prostitute says drug use caused her to fail a lie detector test when questioned about her relationship with evangelist jimmy swaggart, a television station reported
debra murphree, who claims swaggart paid her to pose nude, took the polygraph test voluntarily monday after offering to sell the national enquirer her story for $100,000, paul levy, a senior editor of the supermarket tabloid, said friday
levy said the examiner, an expert with 15 years' experience with the new york city police department, concluded the 28-year-old woman was not truthful on six questions, including one in which she denied making up the story
he said the story included claims that swaggart paid her to perform oral sex as well as pose naked and talk dirty
levy said the enquirer decided not to print her story based on the lie detector results, her drug history and her record of having been arrested in three states
wvue-tv of new orleans, which had interviewed murphree and aired her claims this week, reported friday that she blamed the lie detector failure on drugs
i was very nervous. i had been doing crack and cocaine just the day before. i had trouble remembering some of the questions,'' the station quoted murphree as saying
murphree, who was said to be bahamas-bound on thursday, has three children living with her parents in indiana and has a record of prostitution arrests in florida, tennessee and louisiana, authorities said
john martinez, a companion of murphree, told the palm beach post that murphree visited swaggart weekly for a year in new orleans-area motel rooms at $50 per meeting
martinez acknowledged he has been trying to sell murphree's story since swaggart's tearful public confession of sin sunday, which led the assemblies of god denomination to recommend the evangelist be suspended from preaching
swaggart said he was guilty of sins against his wife and god, but has not commented further. associates of swaggart have described his misconduct as involving pornographic acts
clark kent, the mild-mannered reporter who heads for phone booths when he smells trouble, has become more of a yuppie lately, says a comic book artist who drew superman for more than 25 years
the appraisal came from curt swan, 68, at friday's 50th anniversary party for the comic book character
kent, superman's alter ego, was initially portrayed as a ``milquetoast, sweet, timid'' man, swan said. but he is now often portrayed by other illustrators as more of a yuppie, with tailored suits and a muscular physique
he wears high-fashion clothes,'' swan said, adding that he prefers the old kent
the character of superman, though, has remained relatively unchanged over the years, he said
some of the hundreds of people who attended the party, including 10-year-old danny williams of greenwich, conn., said they like it that way
he's a hero. he's so strong. he flies and he's a legend,'' williams said as he watched tv clips of superman
the party, staged by dc comics, the comic-book publisher that introduced the cartoon character in june 1938, drew children and adults fascinated with the man of steel, impervious to all but the disabling substance kryptonite
i came from a world that no longer exists. men would call me superman,'' came a voice through loudspeakers as the crowd was treated to a slide show, replays of original radio programs and a sound and light show
the party included a smoke-filled, tunnel-like hallway supposedly made of the fictitious kryptonite. some children hesitated, scared to walk through
superman was actually created in 1933, when two high school boys from cleveland _ jerry siegel and joe shuster _ depicted a man who could bend steel with his bare hands
it took until 1937 for siegel, the writer, and shuster, the illustrator, to sell their idea to a man who needed a fresh new lead character in a new comic book. the first issue sold hundreds of thousands of copies
through the years, superman's daring rescues and battles against evil have been chronicled in hundreds of newspaper funny pages, a radio serial, a tv series and movies
the cast of characters includes reporter lois lane, his perennial heartthrob, eager-beaver cub reporter jimmy olsen and perry white, blustering editor of the daily planet
a yearlong celebration of superman, which will continue through june, features an exhibition at the smithsonian institution's national museum of american history, the release of the movie ``superman iv,'' a prime-time cbs special and the unveiling of a statue celebrating superman and his creators
superman over the years has ``become part of the culture all over the world,'' said paul levitz, executive vice president of dc comics
there was a period a few years ago where we were selling more comic books in germany than in the united states,'' he said. ``the basic myth of the character touches everyone. we'd all like to think that within the clark kent we all are there is the superman inside.''
mayor edward i. koch said he wished there ``were a superman i could have in the city to protect us from crime.''
i like superman comics. i used to read them when i was a kid. my father said it was junk,'' said dorothy a. puzo, a movie director and writer whose father, the novelist mario puzo, wrote screenplays for two superman movies
a motorist on his way to work stopped to help at an accident scene, only to discover the mortally injured victim was his own 6-year-old son
i thought i was helping somebody else's kid,'' said herbert l. robinson, a state employment specialist. ``i just saw him laying there on the street and people standing around trying to take care of him.''
mark and his 10-year-old sister, joanna, were on their way to school when the accident happened friday, said their mother, janet robinson
police said the boy stopped to tie his shoe while walking with two other children. when he hurried to catch up, he ran into an intersection and was struck by a car
he died after being taken to milwaukee county medical complex
opportunity knocks loudly at your door.'' _ secretary of state george shultz, in israel, urging palestinian support of his peace plan to end clashes in the occupied lands
i don't have a seat of government, nor military support, but i do have 2 million panamanians who are tired and bored of living under a regime that one man has governed capriciously, and because of that i call for national resistance to paralyze the entire country starting monday.'' _ deposed president eric arturo delvalle of panama
the longer it goes without reaching a conclusion, the more questions we have from our own members and our pastors.'' _ assemblies of god spokeswoman juleen turnage, discussing a decision by leaders of jimmy swaggart's denomination to have louisiana officials rethink their proposed three-month suspension of the tv evangelist
the government said it freed more than 2,000 prisoners today as part of a ``grand amnesty.'' opposition leaders called the clemency deceitful, claiming 1,200 political prisoners were still in jail
release all prisoners of conscience,'' the national coalition for democracy, the main coalition of dissident groups, said in a statement
the new government of president roh tae-woo said it released 2,134 people from jails today and 5,100 others had their sentences reduced or their civic rights restored
about 125 dissidents were among those freed and 1,606 others had sentences reduced or regained their rights. the rest of the people included in the amnesty were common criminals
dissidents and other prisoners were released early today from prisons in seoul and other cities
roh, who took office thursday with a promise to introduce sweeping democratic reforms, said the amnesty was to build public confidence and underline the government's determination to end decades of authoritarian rule
but the amnesty did not include dissidents who had refused to repent or ``fundamentally reject free democracy,'' the government said. dissidents who had committed serious crimes such as murder or arson were also excluded
among the excluded were prominent dissident leaders chang ki-pyo and kim kun-tae, both serving seven-year terms for inciting riots. amnesty international and other human rights groups have demanded kim's release
about 100 radicals and relatives of jailed dissidents staged a protest today in seoul outside the national council of churches building. they shouted ``release all the prisoners,'' but passersby showed little interest
scuffles, kicking and punching broke out as riot police barred the way when the protesters tried to march. furious protesters hit police with placards and fists and seized several riot shields and smashed them, but they were prevented from marching
dissident leader rev. moon ik-hwan, who had his civic rights restored under the amnesty, told the protesters the amnesty was a fraud. ``as long as there is a single dissident in jail, democracy cannot be achieved,'' he declared
in announcing the ``grand amnesty'' friday, culture and information minister chung han-mo said it was intended to promote ``national harmony and restore public confidence'' in the government
at a news conference today, opposition leader kim dae-jung called for ``total'' amnesty, complaining that the number of political prisoners released constituted only a small portion of political detainees. he called on the government to free all but those who admitted to being communists
communism is outlawed in south korea
kim dae-jung later denounced roh's government at a rally in seoul attended by about 4,000 people. he reiterated his claim that presidential elections in december had been rigged, and urged people to vote for the opposition in upcoming legislative elections
but the veteran opposition leader also said he was willing to give roh a chance to meet his promise to usher in full democracy
i can cooperate with roh as the incumbent ruler in power if he carries out sweeping reforms, including complete freedom, release of all politicl prisoners and full guarantee of other civil rights,'' he said
kim dae-jung and rival opposition leader kim young-sam were both defeated by roh in the presidential balloting, though the winner did not receive a majority of the ballots cast
government officials say 276 political detainees are still behind bars _ 216 still awaiting trial and 60 others serving sentences for serious crimes
the authorities hinted that some of those awaiting trial may be freed when judicial processes are completed
a boeing 727 passenger plane of talia airlines crashed today while approaching the ercan airport in north cyprus, the semi-official anatolia agency reported
the report said the plane was on a flight from istanbul to ercan. it gave no further details. rebels</head>
government agents raided a prostitution den in a nearby resort at dawn today, arresting seven americans and 15 other foreigners who were customers or managers of teen-age male prostitutes, officials said
the arrests were made at a hotel and eight cottages in pagsanjan, a riverside resort town 40 miles southeast of manila that has long been notorious for child prostitutes who cater to foreign tourists
miriam defensor-santiago, chief of the commission on immigration and deportation, said she planned to begin deportation proceedings monday against the arrested foreigners, whose identities were not immediately available
evidence seized during the raid included hundreds of color photographs of naked male and female teen-agers that officials said prostitution den operators used as catalogues for customers
in addition to the americans, those arrested included five west germans, three australians, two belgians, a briton, a spaniard, a dutchman, a canadian and a japanese, said mrs. defensor-santiago
she said they ranged in age from 55 to 60
the immigration chief told reporters she could also file criminal charges against the foreigners but thought deportation was the better option
i believe that their continued presence in philippine society would be inimical to the national interest,'' mrs. defensor-santiago added. ``therefore, i prefer to act more quickly.''
she said she had evidence that some of those arrested were not customers but rather operators of establishments ``engaged in wide-scale child prostitution.''
the agents also rounded up 18 male prostitutes aged 14 and 15 and a 16-year-old girl and three filipino recruiters, mrs. defensor-santiago said. the teen-agers over to the department of social welfare
she said government officials were studying whether to prosecute the children, who could be liable to jail terms of six years, or to treate them as ``victims,'' which would qualify them for aid under a government rehabilitation program
estimates on the number of male and female prostitutes in this country range from 100,000 to one million
the dispatch said the plane was not carrying any commercial passengers. it was on a flight from istanbul to ercan, in the turkish side of the divided mediterranean island
rescue teams left for the site of the crash, in mountains near the northern cyprus port city of kyrenia, anatolia reported
it said the number of casualties could not be determined before the rescue teams get to the crash site. marine</head>
the country's mainstream shiite moslem militia fired its security chief, who claimed the kidnapped u.s. marine colonel the militia has been trying to find and free is a nato spy
the fired security chief, mustafa dirani, also criticized the amal militia for arresting shiite radicals in its search for lt. col. william r. higgins
also friday, there was a claim of responsibility for the kidnapping of two scandinavian u.n. relief workers in a note delivered to a western news agency in west beirut
the handwritten arabic note bore the victims' signatures, fingerprints and handwritten lines in english purportedly from the captives that said they were in good health
it said the two would be freed when their ``interrogation'' is complete
amal, which has been searching for higgins since his abduction in southern lebanon by pro-iranian shiite moslem extremists feb. 17, said in a statement friday that dirani was ``relieved of his responsibility as head of the central security system.'' it did not elaborate
higgins, 43, commanded a 76-member truce observer group from 16 nations attached to the u.n. interim force in lebanon, known as unifil
dirani said in a statement of his own that nato paid higgins and some officials of the 5,800-man unifil force to gather information about terrorists
regarding the american officer, i would like to stress that we have confirmed information that nato is seeking to confront what it calls terrorism ... by forming security systems specializing in lebanon to gather information in preparation for acts of piracy in the future,'' dirani said in the statement, which did not mention his dismissal
his accusations echoed claims by the kidnappers, a group calling itself the organization of the oppressed on earth, that higgins is a cia spy
dirani, a former master sergeant in the lebanese army, criticized amal for detaining members of hezbollah, which is allied with iran and is challenging amal for supremacy in predominantly shiite south lebanon
hezbollah, or party of god, is believed to be the umbrella for groups holding most of the 25 foreigners missing in lebanon
u.s. officials denied higgins was a spy and u.n. spokesman timur goksel said friday that dirani's allegations were baseless
all unifil personnel report directly to unifil headquarters and to nowhere else,'' he said
higgins, from danville, ky., once was an aide to former u.s. secretary of defense caspar weinberger. he was seized near the ancient port of tyre, an amal stronghold 50 miles south of beirut
he is the ninth american among the missing foreigners. the hostage held longest is terry a. anderson, chief middle east correspondent of the associated press, abducted march 16, 1985
a group identifying itself as revolutionary cells claimed responsibility for kidnapping two scandinavian officials of the u.n. relief and works agency on feb. 5. the group's motives and affiliations were not known
in the note it released friday, the group said it would free jan stening, 44, of sweden, and william jorgenson, 58, of norway, once their ``interrogation'' is completed
i am in good health and i hope that i will be released soon,'' stening purportedly wrote on the note
i am in good health and am eating good. also i hope to be released very soon,'' jorgensen wrote
stening and jorgensen were seized near the ein el-hileweh refugee camp on the outskirts of the southern port of sidon
marrack goulding, the u.n. undersecretary-general for political affairs, said secret contacts were under way with ``people who might have influence'' on the abductors to win the release of the captives
the u.n. relief and works agency supplies medical help, schooling and food to palestinian refugees in lebanon and the israeli-occupied territories
mary dunhill, the last surviving child of alfred dunhill, founder of the tobacco and pipe-making company, has died at the age of 81, death notices said today
the only daughter among dunhill's four children, ms. dunhill joined the board of dunhill holdings in 1944, explaining ``they were rather short of men,'' and in 1961 became chairman, succeeding her eldest brother, alfred
during her tenure as chairman, the company won the queen's award to industry three times
miss mary,'' as she was known, became president when she retired as chairman in 1975, and continued to work two days a week
her autobiography, ``our family business,'' was published in 1979
ms. dunhill is survived by her second husband, rex lane, and her two daughters by her first marriage to geoffrey holman, who died in 1953
the cause of ms. dunhill's death on wednesday was not revealed, nor were funeral plans. additional reward and inserts two grafs after 7th graf pvs ``the man'' to update with quote from homeowner. picks up 8th graf pvs ``ward dismissed.''</note>
the murder of a young policeman shot three times in the head at point-blank range was intended to intimidate those who help authorities in the war against drug dealers, the police commissioner said
officer edward byrne, 22, killed as he sat in his patrol car early friday, was guarding the home of a queens man who complained to authorities about neighborhood crack dealers, authorities said
police commissioner benjamin ward called it ``a deliberate assassination'' and an ``attempt to intimidate not just that witness but all'' who cooperate with police against drug dealers
an attack on a cop is an attack on society,'' said mayor edward i. koch, adding that the city was offering a $10,000 reward for information leading to the arrest and conviction of the killer or killers
a private group calling itself citizens outraged at police being shot and the daily news offered an additional $10,000 each
a confidential, 24-hour hotline was established for tips. police said that one or more people had seen part of the attack, which took place in a residential area beset with cocaine trafficking and violence related to turf wars between drug dealers
witnesses told police that two men pulled up to byrne's cruiser in a car. one got out, approached the patrol car, then quickly fired five shots into the vehicle before fleeing with the other man
the man being protected had a firebomb thrown through his window after he provided information that led to the arrest in november of a young man suspected of dealing crack, authorities said. two others were arrested in connection with the firebombing, and two more were arrested on charges stemming from threats made against the homeowner
the 40-year-old man, a guyanese immigrant who goes by the single name arjune, said friday that he has moved his family from the house, which he has been unsuccessfully trying to sell
i heard the shots. ... i can't say anything. ... i'm scared to death, in fear for my life,'' he said friday
ward dismissed speculation that friday's killing was related to the sentencing thursday of lorenzo ``fat cat'' nichols, the reputed head of a drug empire in southeast queens
nichols, 29, was sentenced to prison for 25 years to life for 11 narcotics and gun convictions
police in recent years have tried to respond to the growing drug trade in southeast queens, launching a major drug sweep known as ``operation cleanup'' in september 1985. in its first two years, it resulted in 400 felony drug arrests and 225 misdemeanor arrests, along with seizure of 85 firearms and 30 pounds of cocaine
the slaying cast a pall over a promotion ceremony friday for 91 people at police headquarters
each of us enters this job with full knowledge of the inherent danger, but we do not expect to be gunned down in this manner,'' ward told the crowd
byrne, whose father is a retired police lieutenant and whose older brother is a federal prosecutor, was single and lived with his parents in the long island city of massapequa. he had been a police officer less than two years
a ship carrying philadelphia incinerator ash is headed back to the delaware bay after being turned away by six countries over 18 months as it tried to find a place to dump its cargo
the coast guard said friday that it has lifted a restriction and will permit the khian sea into harbor. the coast guard had barred the ship because its liberian registery expired, but spokeswoman elizabeth brannan said of the problem, ``it's all worked out.''
she said the ship, carrying 15,000 tons of incinerator ash, was expected to arrive at the mouth of the delaware bay early monday
the state department of environmental resources said it would not allow the khian sea to unload until the ash had been tested for hazardous chemicals
if the ash tests are hazardous, it must be disposed of as hazardous material. if it isn't, it can be landfilled,'' said department spokesman paul ciotta
philadelphia incinerator ash has not been found to be hazardous in the past by government standards, but the environmental group greenpeace has contended the ash is toxic
greenpeace has been tracking the ship's unsuccessful efforts to dispose of its refuse in the bahamas, bermuda, the dominican republic, guinea-bissau, haiti and honduras, and making it the center of a campaign against exporting waste from the united states
the city of brotherly love must take responsibility for its ash crisis, and not dump it on developing countries,'' said jim vallette of greenpeace usa
faced with a shortage of affordable landfill space, the city hired a contractor, joseph paolino &amp; sons, inc. of philadelphia, to dispose of the ash
the khian sea set sail sept. 5, 1986
a second ship, the bark, loaded with about 14,000 tons of city ash, left philadelphia feb. 5, bound for haiti, according to the philadelphia maritime exchange. greenpeace said friday it learned from shipping industry sources that the bark arrived in haiti on feb. 23
police at jan smuts airport today blew up a plastic bag that they mistakenly believed contained two limpet mines, authorities said
there were no injuries or damage in the controlled explosion, police spokesman col. steve van rooyen said
van rooyen said a woman reported seeing a plastic bag in an unattented cart in the underground parking garage this morning. police, believing the bag contained a limpet mine and a mini-limpet mine, took the bag onto a lawn outside the garage and destroyed it using their own explosives, the spokesman added
van rooyen said the items destroyed were not limpet mines, but were either limpet mine casings or imitation casings. he said that the person who planted the bag had intended for it to be mistaken as an explosive device
jan smuts airport is the country's main airport, located east of johannesburg
hunters became the hunted when three protesters armed with pots, pans and cameras parachuted into northeastern british columbia in an effort to block a government wolf kill
as the friends of the wolf members began their effort in the muskwa valley on friday, the western canadian wilderness committee was in british columbia's supreme court in vancouver seeking an injunction to halt the wolf hunt
justice alan macdonell declined to order an immediate injunction but ordered that the application be heard monday
meanwhile, another environmental group, earth first, planned its own protest and said it would have people hike into the area to interfere with the government-paid hunters
the provincial government's enviornmental ministry announced monday that about 55 wolves will be shot in a 3,700-square-mile area of the valley
biologists blame wolves for reducing populations of moose, stone sheep, elk and caribou to low levels in the area
since 1977, more than 1,000 wolves have been killed in british columbia, and experts estimate there are 7,000 wolves in the province. controls in other provinces vary _ ontario permits the hunting of coyotes but not timber wolves, while alberta has considered a wolf kill for northern areas
the three friends of the wolf protesters _ myra finkelstein, renee grandi, and randy reibin _ were equipped for 10 days in the region, where temperatures can drop far below zero at night, the organization said
they were carrying video and camera equipment in the belief that if the hunt was recorded, it would prevent hunters from carrying out the kill
with witnesses there, we're pretty confident the hunters won't even show up,'' said sue rodriguez-pastor in a telephone interview from fort st. john, about 500 miles northeast of vancouver
if the government-paid hunters are not deterred, she said the protesters will try to scare the wolves away with the noise of pots and pans
ralph archibald, coordinator of the fish and wildlife branch's carnivore control program, said friday he doubted the protesters could disrupt the hunt
the muskwa is a very large area,'' said archibald in a telephone interview from victoria. ``the probability of these groups bumping into each other is pretty low.''
north korea today said south korean troops fired several rounds of automatic weapon fire at a north korean guard post in the demilitarized zone separating the two countries
north korea's official radio pyongyang said the south stationed about 30 soldiers armed with large-caliber machine guns and automatic weapons within the dmz at its central part and fired several rounds friday night in a ``grave military provocation.''
the broadcast, monitored in tokyo, did not report any casualties and did not say whether the north returned the fire
on feb. 17, the u.n. command in south korea said the north fired four rounds of machine-gun fire across the dmz. the command, led by the united states, said south korean soldiers did not return gunfire
the korean peninsula was divided after world war ii, and the two sides, separated by the demilitarized zone, remain bitter enemies after fighting a war in 1950-53
more than 120,000 people, from toddlers to prime minister rajiv gandhi, ran in a patriotic show of strength today to mark the 40th year of india's independence
gandhi, dressed in a gray track suit and sneakers, flagged off the ``freedom run'' near parliament house, and thousands of people, mainly schoolchildren, flooded the roads
most of the runners wore t-shirts of saffron, green and white, the colors of the indian flag
gandhi and about 70 other vips, including cabinet ministers and movie stars, joined the run for awhile. the prime minister was surrounded by a human wall of security guards
he ran for about a half a mile before being whisked away in his bulletproof car. gandhi faces death threats from sikh extremists who have waged a campaign for an independent nation in india's northern punjab state
thousands of policemen dotted the entire route of the 24-mile run through the city, which ended at the national stadium
the event was organized to mark 40 years since india gained its independence from british colonial rule on aug. 15, 1947
italian journalists today began a nationwide strike intended to prevent publication of daily newspapers on sunday and monday
the walkout, called to protest a breakdown in negotiations for a new contract, will extend to radio and television journalists sunday and monday
transmitters of the nation's main news agencies, ansa and agi, went silent at 7 a.m
the strike will rob readers of news of italy's olympic skiing hero alberto tomba, who was going for a second gold medal. however, the race was being broadcast live on three channels
the strike is the latest in a series of job actions by journalists. the journalists, whose contracts expired in decmeber, are seeking pay increases and control over new technology
in a related development, the price for daily newspapers is being raised 8 cents to 72 cents beginning next tuesday
italians also faced other strikes this weekend
airport ground personnel scheduled a 24-hour walkout sunday in a continuing contract dispute, causing the state-run alitalia airlines to cancel many flights to and from rome's leonardo da vinci airport. the airline said intercontinental flights would operate on schedule
many schools across italy, which are normally open saturday morning, were shut down as a result of a strike by teachers demanding higher pay and better working conditions. pilot's last contact with flight tower, details and nationalities of crew; corrects that ercan an airport, not a city. no pickup.</note>
a turkish boeing 727 crashed into mountains today near the coastal resort city of kyrenia in northern cyprus, killing all 15 people aboard, rescue officials said
the charter plane crashed 10 minutes before landing at ercan airport in the turkish cypriot sector of the war-divided east mediterranean island, airport officials said
there was no immediate word on what caused the crash at 10:20 a.m. about eight miles east of kyrenia
ayhan bolay, director of civil aviation in turkey's communications ministry, said in ankara that the weather was clear and communications were normal with the control tower as the plane approached ercan. the mountains were shrouded in mist
in his last message to the tower, the pilot said: ``i want to see the runway as i land,'' bolay told reporters
please confirm you sighted the runway,'' the tower responded before losing radio contact with the plane, bolay said
officials said the plane was on a flight from istanbul to pick up a group of finnish tourists for a sunday flight to helsinki via istanbul
airport officials in istanbul said the seven crew members were from yugoslavia. they said two of the six flight attendants were british and the others were turkish
the officials said two passengers _ a partner in talia airlines, the turkish charter company that owned the plane, and his wife _ were also aboard
witnesses said the plane crashed near the bufavento castle in the kyrenia range, which rises steeply from the coast to a height of 1,000 feet, and broke in two
a pillar of smoke billowed from the blazing wreckage as rescue teams raced to the crash site, they reported
cyprus has been divided into greek and turkish sectors since the turkish army invaded in 1974 after a short-lived coup by greek cypriot militants seeking union with greece
the turks seized the northern one-third of the island, including the coastal resort city of kyrenia. the 120,000 turkish cypriots, outnumbered 5-1 by greek cypriots, declared the north an independent republic in 1983
u.n. spokesman charles gaulkin said the u.n. peacekeeping force on the island contacted turkish cypriot authorities and offered to provide helicopters to help evacuate casualties, ``but they said it was not necessary.''
the boeing was the second plane to crash in the kyrenia range, almost in the same spot, in 15 years
an egyptian airliner of the united arab airlines crashed about two miles west of today crash scene on jan. 29, 1973, on a flight from cairo to nicosia. all 62 people aboard were killed
twenty-three people were convicted in connection with a drug trafficking ring that used housewives to smuggle heroin into new york in exchange for cash and a stay at posh manhattan hotels
in the verdict rendered by a palermo court friday evening, all defendants were convicted of drug trafficking and the alleged masterminds were also found guilty of mafia association
one of the alleged ringleaders, francesco rosciglione, received the heaviest punishment, an 18-year prison sentence. another, ignazio mattiolo, was sentenced to 14 years and salvatore allegra, a defendant who became a witness for the state, received a term of 12 years
the other defendants, mostly women, were sentenced to terms ranging from two years to eight years in prison
the ring was broken in 1986 when a middle-aged woman carrying 6.6 pounds of heroin was arrested at palermo's punta raisi airport as she was about to board a flight for new york. the probe was led by one of italy's top anti-mafia investigators, judge giovanni falcone
prosecutors said the housewives would hide the heroin under their clothes, dousing themselves heavily with perfume to conceal the scent from drug-sniffing dogs
the women were paid $16,130 for each trip, plus the cost of the round-trip ticket and all their expenses, including a stay at exclusive hotels in new york, the prosecutors said
italian porn star and parliamentarian ilona staller was arrested for indecent exposure today after performing a striptease at a bar and mingling too liberally with the customers, police said
staller, better known as cicciolina, was being questioned by police
staller arrived in the belgian capital friday to launch her bid for a seat in the european parliament in the 1989 elections and to speak out in favor of sexual liberty
she had scheduled several shows here and in nearby charleroi
between 200 and 300 people attended her show at the canal street nightclub, including some brussels police officers
before staller arrived, police had warned she would be arrested if her behavior was unacceptable by belgian standards
a police spokesman said while striptease is not illegal in belgium, staller overstepped the bounds of decency when she left the night club stage and began mingling with the audience
staller was elected to the italian parliament last year as a candidate for the small, outspoken radical party
a cliff, weakened by days of rain, collapsed today onto a shanty settlement, killing at least 21 people and injuring six others, authorities said
rescue workers dug through the ruins of the settlement in search of other victims who might be trapped in the debris
those left homeless by the disaster and numerous families whose homes were threatened were evacuated and given temporary refuge at a center in the suburbs of fez, which is 125 miles east of the moroccan capital, rabat
the rescue operation was headed by state minister moulay ahmed alaoui, who is also president of the provincial assembly
heavy rains fell in the region for several days
a federal grand jury has indicted two music promoters, a former radio executive and the wife of one promoter on charges of tax evasion and paying more than $270,000 in cash plus cocaine to get records played on the air
employees of nine radio stations in eight cities were named as receiving the payola between 1980 and 1986, but weren't indicted. some were cooperating with authorities, the government said
two of the stations are in fresno, calif.; and one each in el paso, texas; kansas city, mo.; atlanta; cincinnati; jacksonville, fla.; memphis, tenn.; and charlotte, n.c
the investigation is continuing, but u.s. attorney robert bonner declined to say if more indictments were expected
the three indictments announced friday stem from an investigation that began two years ago
the independent promoters were acting on behalf of virtually all record companies in this country,'' bonner said. but he said there was no evidence that the record companies were aware of the payola
among those indicted friday was independent promoter ralph tashjian, an associate of joseph isgro, a los angeles-based promoter who also has been under investigation but wasn't named in the indictments
tashjian, 39, of san mateo, calif., was accused of giving cash, cocaine and ``other valuable considerations'' to radio station employees. among the records he pushed were duran duran's ``wild boys'' and former led zeppelin lead singer robert plant's ``principle of.''
tashjian also was accused of obstructing justice by falsifying records of his company, ralph tashjian enterprises inc., after learning he was under investigation
tashjian and his wife, valerie, were accused of under-reporting income by $303,988 for 1983, 1984 and 1985, to evade $101,579 in federal taxes
david kenner, attorney for the tashjians, who were arrested at their home thursday, said the couple ``categorically denies any wrongdoing.''
in a second indictment, independent promoter william craig, 42, of scottsdale, ariz., also known as william craighead, was accused of making illegal payments to get records on the air, willfully aiding in the preparation of fraudulent federal tax returns and attempting to evade individual income tax
craig promoted records by janet jackson, culture club, new edition and the eurythmics, among others
a woman who answered one of craig's telephone numbers took a message but said it was doubtful the call would be returned
a third indictment accused george wilson crowell, also known as george wilson, 59, former vice president and general manager of radio station kiqq in los angeles, with willful failure to file federal income tax returns for 1984, 1985 and 1986
crowell's attorney, sidney sodas of milwaukee, wis., had no comment on the indictment
crowell of denver and craig are expected to surrender within the next few days, bonner said
maximum penalties for those indicted are: craig, 18 years in prison, fines of $1.64 million; tashjian, 23 years, $1.53 million; mrs. tashjian, 15 years, $1.5 million; and crowell, three years, $75,000, bonner said. picks up 10th graf pvs, `in the arab ...' ^by karin laub</note>
two palestinians were reported shot and killed today and scores wounded in violent clashes with israeli soldiers, and hundreds of israeli arabs demonstrated in solidarity with their brethren in the occupied west bank and gaza strip
secretary of state george shultz took his middle east peace plan to the arab world, while u.s. diplomats in jerusalem tried again to arrange a meeting between shultz and palestinians
fifteen palestinians invited to meet with shultz on friday boycotted the meeting
scattered protests were reported in the occupied territories today, a day after four arabs died in violent clashes on the moslem holy day
the u.n. says at least 69 palestinians have been killed in violence since dec. 8, although that figure did not include one of today's deaths. the israeli army put the number of dead at 59 and said 580 arabs had been wounded by army gunfire
in the arrub refugee camp south of bethlehem, soldiers fired tear gas and live ammunition to disperse stone-throwing protesters, camp residents said
a 20-year-old arrub man, identified as nihad abdul ghafour, died of gunshot wounds, said dr. hani abdeen of jerusalem's mukassad hospital, where the victim was taken
abdeen said he treated 12 residents of arrub and the nearby villages halhoul and dhahiriya for gunshot wounds. five arrub residents suffered broken limbs after being beaten by soldiers, he said
a halhoul resident died after being shot in the chest during clashes in that west bank village, said a doctor at hebron's alia hospital. the arab-run palestine press service identified the victim as baker abdullah al bao, 17
alia hospital officials also said they treated 15 arabs for gunshot wounds following protests in halhoul, arrub and dhahiriya
in the gaza strip's nuseirat refugee camp, a 23-year-old man was wounded by a gunshot in the back during clashes with soldiers, hospital officials said
the army said it was checking the casualty reports
in the arab village of shefaram in northern israel, about 300 arabs demonstrated peacefully against israeli policies in the occupied lands. police did not interfere
in the gaza strip, the army imposed or extended curfews on four refugee camps, confining to their homes 120,000 people, nearly one-tenth of the 1.5 million arabs in the occupied lands
in leaflets distributed by ``the united national leadership for the uprising'' last week, palestinian organizers called for stepped up protests during the shultz visit, including the defiance of curfews
there were no immediate reports of curfew violations
military police, meanwhile, detained four soldiers who were filmed beating and kicking two bound arabs in the west bank city of nablus on thursday. the army also suspended the unit's deputy commander and ordered the two arabs released
we were shocked and couldn't say a word after we saw this film,'' the army's west bank commander, maj. gen. amram mitzna, said friday after viewing footage of the beating
excerpts of the cbs television footage were screened on israel television. they show four soldiers bent over two arabs lying on the ground, their hands tied behind their backs
the soldiers kicked the arabs in the head and chest, then picked up fist-sized rocks and smash them on the arabs' arms and legs, trying to break bones
officials said military prosecutors would decide whether to court-martial the soldiers
shultz flew to amman, jordan today and met with high-ranking officials, who told him the palestine liberation organization must be permitted to attend an international middle east peace conference. jordan's king hussein was in london
after the four-hour stopover, shultz flew to damascus to meet with syrian president hafez assad. shultz is on a five-day diplomatic mission that began thursday
in meetings friday, shultz apparently failed to persuade israeli prime minister yitzhak shamir to agree to negotations on a middle east settlement by the end of the year
the u.s. plan calls for immediate talks on palestinian self-rule and negotiations by december on the final status of the west bank and gaza, which israel seized from egypt and jordan in the 1967 middle east war
shultz suggested the 15 palestinians who declined his invitation to meet friday night were fearful of working with the united states because of orders from the plo
in a statement read to reporters, he told palestinians ``opportunity knocks loudly on your door. now is the time to get to work.''
those invited had vowed to boycott the meeting because shultz refused a plo demand to consult palestinians living abroad about his new peace initiative. shultz meets again sunday with shamir and peres before leaving for cairo to see egyptian president hosni mubarak. he returns to jerusalem again sunday night for further talks. with plo statement released in amman. picks up 12th graf, `shultz pushed ...'</note>
secretary of state george p. shultz took his middle east peace plan to syria today after jordan rebuffed his attempt to exclude the soviet union and the plo from middle east peace negotiations
obviously that's their point of view,'' shultz said in amman after hearing jordanian demands sharply at odds with u.s. and israeli positions
shultz has called for palestinian participation in negotiations, but not participation by the palestine liberation organization
shultz also opposes an active role for the soviets in shaping a middle east settlement to end the arab-israeli dispute
but jordanian foreign minister taher masri, while calling shultz's meeting with jordanian officials ``serious and useful,'' said the only way for a peace settlement was through an international conference, including the soviets and the plo
in israel, shultz also encountered resistance from prime minister yitzhak shamir to his plea for an accelerated timetable for negotiations leading to talks on a final settlement by december
israeli sources, speaking on condition of anonymity, said shamir urged shultz to move slowly on the issue of palestinian self-rule despite the 11 weeks of anti-occupation unrest
the u.s. plan calls for immediate talks on palestinian self-rule and negotiations by december on the final status of the west bank and gaza strip, which israel seized from egypt and jordan in the 1967 middle east war
shultz had hoped with his mission to diffuse unrest on the occupied territories, where palestinians have clashed with israeli soldiers almost daily since since dec. 8
a further setback was a boycott friday in jerusalem by 15 palestinians invited by shultz to discuss their aspirations for national rights
after the boycott, shultz read a statement carried on israeli television to arabs in the region saying, ``opportunity knocks loudly on your door. now is the time to get to work.''
in amman, the plo said today it is willing to meet u.s. officials ``on any level,'' and said american rejection of a meeting shows the united states is not serious about arab-israeli peace
u.s. policy forbids american diplomats to meet ranking plo officials because the the administration regards the plo as a terrorist organization
shultz pushed on and flew to damascus to discuss the gloomy outlook with syrian president hafez assad, whom he has described as a key player in any middle east settlement
shultz is the first u.s. secretary of state to visit damascus since 1983
in amman, masri said the permanent members of the u.n. security council _ the united states, the soviet union, china, britain and france _ and the plo must be invited to peace talks
israel refuses to deal with the plo, which is waging a guerrilla war against the jewish state, and israel has u.s. backing for this position
shultz also supports shamir in trying to keep the soviets from trying to influence the outcome of any peace talks
in jerusalem, u.s. diplomats tried again to arrange a meeting between shultz and palestinian figures
in his television statement friday, shultz implied the palestinians were afraid to meet him because they would be defying the plo, which instructed palestinians in the occupied territories to boycott shultz's invitation
peace-making is difficult,'' shultz said. ``peace has its enemies, but peace is a necessary ingredient to a decent life.''
the stopover in amman was not considered critical, since king hussein is in london, where he will meet with shultz on tuesday
on sunday, shultz meets again with shamir and foreign minister shimon peres before leaving for cairo to see egyptian president hosni mubarak
shultz returns to jerusalem again sunday night for further talks with shamir
a u.s. navy ship docked in the southern port city of pusan on saturday and discharged the first u.s. soldiers and equipment to arrive for large military exercises, news reports said
the yonhap news agency said the 26,000-ton regulus arrived from takoma, wash., carrying 714 u.s. soldiers, 14 helicopters, three tractors and 1,036 trucks
the united states and south korea plan to deploy about 200,000 soldiers in the annual ``team spirit'' exercises, scheduled to run from late february to early may
u.s. officials said the exercises this year will involve about 60,000 u.s. military personnel along with u.s. and south korean jets, a u.s. aircraft carrier and escorting warships
about 40,000 u.s. troops from bases in the pacific and the united states are to be brought in to join american troops based in south korea
north korea has strongly opposed the exercises
mozambican rebels sank six military patrol boats on lake nyassa in northwestern mozambique after killing dozens of soldiers elsewhere in the country, the rebels said saturday
the mozambican national resistance said in a statement distributed in lisbon that it sank the boats feb. 20 at the metangula base on the eastern shore of lake nyassa, which borders mozambique, malawi and tanzania
the statement said the attack put a company of 100 mozambican marines out of action, but it did not mention casualties. rebel spokesmen could not be contacted for comment saturday
guerrillas also captured three towns in northeastern niassa province feb. 22 and 23, the statement said. it gave no further details
the right-wing rebels, also known as renamo, have been fighting since 1977 to topple mozambique's marxist government. south africa denies mozambican charges it supports the group
the rebels also said they killed several cuban and soviet advisers and captured 43 mozambican soldiers feb. 17 in an attack on the town of bela vista, 30 miles south of the capital, maputo
on the day same, the rebels claimed they occupied the town of lugela in central zambezia province, killing 18 mozambican troops and 17 tanzanian soldiers fighting for the government
there was no independent confirmation of the claims nor any indication of rebel casualties
since mid-1985, top leaders of the united democratic front have been facing treason charges in a trial viewed as a likely prelude to a ban on the nationwide anti-apartheid coalition
last week, the government decided not to wait for a verdict
it banned all the group's activities and imposed severe restrictions on the few coalition leaders still free. most of the 18 groups banned from political activity last week were affiliated with the front
the apparent goal of the ban was to stamp out a grass-roots movement that in less than five years had become the largest _ and in many ways the most potent _ opposition group in south africa's history
the united democratic front has proved resilient before, and it may survive this latest blow. even if it does not, its legacy seems assured
the (coalition) was the most effective political force that has operated in black townships ever,'' said tom lodge, a political scientist at johannesburg's university of the witwatersrand
the activist spirit fostered by the group ``will continue under different forms and will always present a challenge to the government,'' lodge said
by law and custom, apartheid establishes a segregated society in which the 26 million blacks have no vote in national affairs. the 5 million whites control the economy and maintain separate districts, schools and health services
before aug. 20, 1983, when the united democratic front was launched at rally near cape town, south africa had never experienced anything like the coalition
it represented the first attempt to meld local and regional anti-apartheid groups into a single network. it pledged itself both to militance and to non-violence
and though it has always been predominantly black, it welcomed white and asian members who embraced its ideals
the coalition grew to encompass more than 600 organizations with about 2 million members. the affiliates include church, civic, educational and youth groups extending into virtually every black township in the country
its original goal was to oppose formation of the tricameral parliament, which has chambers for whites, asians and people of mixed-race but excludes the black majority. it backed a boycott of the 1984 elections for the asian and mixed-race chambers, contributing to turnouts of less than 30 percent
since then, coalition affiliates have waged a variety of campaigns, ranging from prolonged rent boycotts to advocacy of greater black control over education
some analysts say the group's most impressive achievement has been psychological _ convincing ordinary people that it was worth organizing to build unified opposition to apartheid
the rev. allan boesak, a prominent activist who helped found the coalition, said after learning of wednesday's crackdown that the group's day-to-day operations were less important that its symbolism to blacks
it's a living sign that our of belief that the days of white dominance are over,'' he said. ``that's something you cannot ban.''
twice, the government has charged groups of prominent united democratic front officials with treason in an effort to prove that the coalition conspired with the outlawed african national congress guerrilla movement to provoke violence and make south africa ``ungovernable.''
one group, including co-presidents archie gumede and albertina sisulu, went free after the case against them collapsed for lack of evidence
but three other officials, including its national secretary and its chief spokesman, have been held since 1985 during the country's longest-running political trial. they and 16 co-defendants who are free on bail dispute government charges that the organization instigated the black unrest that broke out in september 1984 and claimed some 2,500 lives over the next three years
many activists had predicted that a guilty verdict at the treason trial would be followed by a ban on the coalition
the trials have been only one of several tactics used by the government to weaken the coalition, which in many instances has been forced to operate clandestinely. virtually all of its national executive committee members have been detained or gone into hiding during the 20-month-old state of emergency, and the few who remained in the open were issued banning orders last week barring them from united democratic front activity
according to monitoring groups, about 75 percent of the estimated 30,000 people detained for varying periods during the emergency belonged to the coalition's affiliates
the government has accused the group of contributing to a ``revolutionary climate'' in which its followers rejected established institutions and harassed or killed blacks linked to the white authorities
gumede, in recent interviews, acknowledged that some coalition followers had resorted to coercion and said the government's restrictions on the group's leaders made it difficult to instill discipline
we are on the run,'' he told leadership magazine late last year. ``sooner or later, we are going to find ourselves in a real jam, because people do not have sufficient time to think.''
gumede is now banned from giving interviews or speaking publicly. his co-president, mrs. sisulu, is under police orders to stay in her home between 6 p.m. and 5 p.m
as they learned of the restrictions, an unsigned coalition statement was distributed to the news media
its closing message: ``nothing, we repeat nothing, will stand in the way of the united democratic front as it carries out its historical task and duty of uniting the oppressed and silenced people of our country.''
communist rebels ambushed a military jeep saturday, killing two soldiers and bringing to 11 the number of people killed in two days of scattered clashes, the military said
rebels also stormed a hospital in the northern luzon province of cagayan and carted off medicine, food and other supplies, military officials said. one civilian was wounded in the raid
the government-run philippine news agency said an undetermined number of new people's army guerillas opened fire on a military jeep on the central island of bohol. a constabularly captain was wounded in addition to the two fatalities
in another report, the military said three communist rebels and six moslem guerrillas were killed in earlier clashes in cagayan and on the southern island of mindanao
maj. v.g. jalligao said at least 50 new people's army guerrillas stormed the matilde olivas hospital late wednesday in cagayan province. jalligao said one civilian was wounded in the raid, after which the rebels fled toward a mountain village with medicine, food and other supplies
in mindanao's lanao del sur province, troops from the army's 35th infantry battalion came upon 20 moslem rebels of the moro national liberation front during a patrol friday and killed six of them in the ensuing gun battle. the remaining rebels fled, the military said
the clash occurred on the day president corazon aquino traveled to mindanao and the largely moslem island province of tawi-tawi to unveil economic development programs
during a speech in zamboanga city, mrs. aquino warned moslem countries against encouraging violence by the moslem rebel group, which has been waging a 16-year insurgency for a separate state in the south
fighting in the moslem insurgency peaked in the mid-1970s after the war had claimed more than 50,000 lives
a woman who smiled while shooting point-blank at a police officer who stopped to help her told investigators she had been planning to shoot a police officer for some time, authorities said
she decided this morning it was time to go ahead with it. she figured she'd just drive around until she found one,'' police spokesman dee anderson said
pamela diane takhar, 33, was charged with attempted capital murder and was being held in lieu of $250,000 bond, officer lisa male said saturday. officer gene evans, 26, was wearing a bulletproof vest and suffered no serious injuries in the friday morning shooting
the woman plainly told us she wanted to shoot a police officer,'' said anderson. ``she said that if she did kill a police officer, she would go to jail. then the whole world would know what happens when you shoot someone.''
police said evans stopped to investigate an apparently disabled vehicle and found a woman sitting in the passenger side
he said she was very confused, and he had a conversation with her that didn't make very much sense,'' anderson said. ``she turned around and smiled and then shot him.'' in race; picks up 2nd graf pvs, bgng: the democrats...</note>
gary hart today said he planned to stay in the democratic presidential race, despite his poor showings so far at the polls, as he and his rivals for the nomination prepared to debate one another again
meanwhile, republican george bush turned up the heat on pat robertson for making ``ridiculous'' allegations about him
questions had arisen over wehther hart was planning to call an end to his campaign, but the former colorado senator said he planned to continue looking for votes in the south
hart told a news conference that he would stay in the race because ``the democratic party must have a voice for reform and change.''
the democrats were meeting in a debate in atlanta as they point toward the super tuesday primaries across the south and elsewhere that will decide more than one-third of the nominating delegates and propel at least some of the candidates on to the next round in big industrial states
sen. paul simon, whose campaign is on the ropes and isn't active in the 20 southern and other states voting march 8, predicted: ``you're going to have as a result of super tuesday a very mixed result with jesse jackson likely getting more delgates than anyone else.''
simon told a news conference in atlanta that he would continue to campaign until the march 15 primary in illinois, his home state, where he said he expects to be the leading democratic vote-getter, followed by jackson
some of the democratic candidates planned to participate in a 1{-mile march today through downtown atlanta to call attention to the problem of homelessness
republicans in maine, meanwhile, began a series of weekend caucuses with supporters of bush and chief rival bob dole engaged in an alliance to stop robertson. maine democrats hold their caucuses sunday, with massachusetts gov. michael dukakis expected to win the new england state
there was little mention of the internal bickering between dukakis, richard gephardt and albert gore jr. as they and their other rivals spoke friday evening before a huge georgia state democratic party dinner. they attacked the reagan administration as one of greed and complacency while each repeated his own campaign themes
dukakis, who has tried to remain above the exchanges of the other democrats even as he suggests he may join it, made only a veiled reference to attacks from gephardt earlier this week
i hope we will be a party that has learned the lessons of division,'' dukakis said. ``let's make 1988 a year for the promise of opportunity, not the politics of resentment.''
national democratic chairman paul kirk urged the candidates at the start of the dinner not to engage in more bickering, cautioning that the american people ``don't want name-calling.''
while the democrats talked, vice president bush was ensconsed in a suite at a posh atlanta hotel just across the street from the democrats' gala, taking a respite from two days of stumping in south carolina
he again blasted robertson upon arriving in atlanta, saying the former television evangelist should offer proof to support his various claims _ that bush forces timed the embarrassing sex-scandal disclosures of another tv evangelist, jimmy swaggart, and that the bush camp was engaged in ``sleazy'' politics and ``dirty tricks'' against him
the charge is ridiculous,'' bush said. ``it's not the american way to make unsubstantiated charges. it sounds like ... some kind of elementary level politics.''
campaigning earlier in south carolina, the state robertson has picked for his showdown with bush, the vice president recounted robertson's charges and demanded of each, ``prove it.'' he also said robertson was ``scaring the american people'' by suggesting nuclear missiles are in cuba
dole, meantime, was campaigning in texas where he picked up the endorsement of former gov. john connally, saying it would help him in the largest super tuesday state
robertson also campaigned in texas, saying at a private church academy that he wanted ``to see america ... go back to our faith in god.''
the republican candidates were meeting in a debate in atlanta sunday afternoon, also pointing toward the gop super tuesday primaries
in other campaign activity:
_ dukakis gently criticized gephardt while campaigning in texas earlier friday, saying president reagan's 1981 tax cut that gephardt voted for was ``one of the biggest mistakes in recent american history.'' he didn't name his rival
_ gephardt kept up his theme that america is in an economic decline and lashed out at eastern airlines in miami as an example of a company more interested in ``quick paper profits'' than its employees. eastern has sustained mammoth financial losses
_ jackson accused the u.s. government and cia of being ``an accomplice'' to panama military strongman manuel antonio noriega. he said u.s. backing for noriega, who has been indicted on u.s. drug charges, is an example of the failure of u.s. foreign policy to take the drug threat seriously
_ bush said noriega ``should go and in my view he will go.'' he said he did not rule out use of military force to protect u.s. interests in panama
_ republican jack kemp, who must do well on super tuesday to keep his white house hopes alive, campaigned in south carolina and said noriega ``should be ousted.''
_ with all political eyes on super tuesday, reagan got in the act by meeting with republican state chairmen from the south, who told him they hope to attract conservative democrats to their ranks in the southern presidential primaries
a man who was six months old when his parents divorced 40 years ago has been reunited with his father in the pinellas county jail
there were little tears in his eyes,'' sheriff gerry coleman said of inmate james stewart gaston. ``he was very affectionate toward his son.''
gaston has been jailed for brief stays more than 1,400 times because of alcohol-related misdemeanors. his son, james stewart gallagher of boston, learned his father was in the area from a friend in tampa who read about gaston in the newspaper
gaston, 65, was jailed tuesday for 10 days for violating an open alcohol container law
i've known him 30 years,'' the sheriff said. ``he probably was my first arrest. when he's sober, he's the nicest man you've ever met.''
gallagher, father of two young children, arrived thursday and coleman arranged a 24-hour furlough for gaston
the elegant plaza hotel, the fifth avenue bastion of luxury overlooking central park, might be sold within weeks and a portion of it could be converted to cooperative apartments, a newspaper reported saturday
the 18-story hotel offers rooms from $195 a night for a single to $800 for a suite
real estate dealers philip pilevsky and arthur g. cohen said they were close to a $400 million to $500 million agreement to buy the hotel, the new york times reported
it said the two have formed a joint venture with the mandarin oriental hotel group of hong kong, which owns luxury hotels on both sides of the pacific, to buy the plaza from the bass family of fort worth, texas
pilevsky said the style and spirit of the hotel would remain, but part of it would be converted to cooperative ownership after renovations
a man who first joined the military when he was just 13 has retired after more than 29 years of serivce
i'm proud. the army's been my entire life, my home ... my family,'' master sgt. gilbert zamora, 52, said at friday's ceremony
the army believes zamora was the last korean war combat veteran still on active duty and the youngest american soldier since the civil war
according to zamora's record, he lied about his age and joined the california national guard in 1949 at the age of 13
the los angeles teen-ager was ordered to active duty in 1951, at the start of the korean war. but his parents found out and told the army he was a juvenile
i was out of the army in three hours,'' he said. ``it broke by heart and i refused to go home at first.''
he joined up again when he was 17 in 1953, in time to fight in the korean war's vicious battle of pork chop hill
fed-bashing has long been a favorite election-year pastime for parties occupying the white house. but this year, federal reserve chairman alan greenspan injected a new element: he bashed back
greenspan has signaled to the reagan administration in no uncertain terms that it should quit leaning on the central bank to ease interest rates
the fed chief, in remarks that surprised some fed watchers for their directness, even went a step further, suggesting that such white house pressure could backfire _ and result in a tighter credit policy
incumbents have always found the fed an easy target in election years
former president jimmy carter, for instance, chafed at the severely tight monetary policies pursued by his newly appointed fed chairman, paul volcker, policies that some loyalists claim helped cost carter the election in 1980
the party in power wants easier credit, lower interest rates, a juiced-up economy that can translate into votes _ and the avoidance at all costs of an election-year recession
but such desires often run at cross purposes to the role of the fed, which is to regulate the supply and availability of money in a way that keeps the economy growing at a steady non-inflationary pace
lower interest rates can help delay a recession. but, if applied at the wrong time, they can also trigger a major burst of inflation
greenspan, whose service to republican presidents dates back two decades, may have felt more need than past fed chiefs to publicly demonstrate his independence from the white house just because of these past associations, some analysts suggest
in addition, all members of the fed are now reagan appointees, another factor that might have influenced greenspan's decision to fight back to assert the fed's lack of subservience
greenspan retaliated in back-to-back testimony before the house and senate banking committees
the former chairman of president gerald ford's council of economic advisors told the house panel he totally disagreed with the current council chairman, beryl sprinkel, who has suggested that the fed had been too tightfisted in supplying money to the economy in 1987
had the fed followed the easier-money course favored by sprinkel, greenspan fumed, it would have led to an ``unduly inflationary environment.''
then, stepping up his attack in an appearance before the senate banking committee, greenspan criticized a top treasury official's effort to influence fed policy
i objected quite strongly,'' greenspan said of the letter by assistant treasury secretary michael darby urging the fed to ease monetary policy (that is, lower interest rates) shortly before a recent fed policy meeting
he was not aware of the implications of what he was doing,'' greenspan said. he suggested darby's effort could have been counterproductive, triggering a fed tightening of credit to demonstrate the central bank wasn't bowing to political pressure
the white house moved quickly to downplay the rift. sprinkel, whose criticism of fed policy through much of 1987 was well-known in washington, said he was pleased with the more accommodative monetary policy the fed has pursued so far in 1988
and president reagan, in his televised news conference wednesday night, insisted he had no knowledge of the darby letter and voiced confidence in greenspan _ his choice last summer to succeed volcker
republicans are nervous about the prospects of a recession and want to make sure the fed does what it can to keep the economy rolling between now and election day
and one way to buoy up a sagging economy is with injections of easy money and lower interest rates
fed chairmen often don't do what presidents want them to do. and these chief executives and their lieutenants have found different ways to vent their frustrations
for instance, democratic critics of volcker contend that, even though his tight-money policies in 1980 helped break the back of double-digit inflation, he could have held off on his brand of tough medicine at least until after the 1980 election
while reagan has not personally criticized the fed, volcker was frequently the target of not-too-subtle ``fed bashing'' at the hands of former white house staff chief donald regan
former president lyndon johnson, unhappy with what he perceived as the fed's too-tight monetary policy, summoned then-fed chief william mcchesney martin jr. to his texas ranch for a well-reported lecture as he paraded the reluctant fed chairman around his grounds
some fed chairmen have seemed more eager to enter into alliances with presidents _ for instance, the widely reported willingness of the late fed chairman arthur burns to pump up the nation's money supply at the behest of president nixon to keep interest rates low for the 1972 election
but few fed chairmen have been as vocal in lashing back at their administration critics as greenspan was last week. not that his words were that harsh. the point is that he spoke on the subject at all
he needed to respond strongly to dispel any notions that he was a captive of the administration. he has been very tight with republican administrations in the past,'' said new york economist allen sinai
michael k. evans, a washington economist and longtime fed watcher, contended ``greenspan was annoyed by stories circulating about him claiming he's the tool of the republican party. he decided that was just too much to take, especially with beryl sprinkel beating up on him.''
socialist party leader fred sinowatz said saturday he will quit if it helps force out president kurt waldheim, under pressure to resign over his conduct as an officer in the nazi army
in a radio interview, sinowatz hinted that socialists and the conservative austrian people's party, which form a coalition government, are weighing a deal. it would revolve around the resignation of sinowatz, who is supported by the left, and waldheim, backed by the right
but deputy chancellor and foreign minister alois mock, who also chairs the conservative people's party, immediately rejected such a solution to austria's most pressing problem
sinowatz has had his share of controversy. his opponents contend that he is to blame for leaking information to austrian and u.s. media about waldheim's wartime past in 1986 during waldheim's campaign for the presidency
he has also been linked to illegal arms sales to iran and recently lost a court case involving a journalist who wrote that sinowatz had leaked information about waldheim
the 1986 campaign ended with waldheim winning the presidency, a largely ceremonial post, and with the establishment of a coalition government joining the socialists, who opposed waldheim, and the conservatives, who backed him
leaks about waldheim's wartime past sparked a controversy about the president's stint as a lieutenant in the german army during world war ii. soon thereafter the united states placed waldheim on a ``watch list'' of undesirable aliens, barring him from the country
the u.s. action prompted the austrian government to appoint a panel of historians to probe waldheim's world war ii experience. the panel concluded that while there was no proof that waldheim committed war crimes, he was in ``close proximity'' to such crimes and did nothing to stop them
waldheim has denied any wrongdoing
in the austrian state radio interview, sinowatz said he would step down as socialist chairman ``if this were in the interest of the state,'' but he made clear the proposal was linked to resolving the domestic crisis over waldheim
sinowatz denied that his offer was related to mounting criticicsm over his alleged approval of an illegal weapons shipment to iran in his capacity as chancellor in 1985
he also rejected any link to the acquittal by a vienna court last year of a journalist who wrote that sinowatz, before the 1986 presidential election campaign, had told party friends he would reveal waldheim's wartime past
sinowatz, who has appealed the court ruling, continues to maintain he never made the statement or leaked such information
in the radio interview, sinowatz said there had been talk about ``possible solutions'' in which ``a resignation of myself as party chairman'' would be included
sinowatz said the socialists had made such a proposal to the conservatives and were waiting for their reaction
mock countered in another radio interview that his party cannot decide on behalf of the president
the federal president was elected in a national election by 54 percent of austrians,'' he said. ``no party can depose him.''
but after sinowatz's initiative, mock is likely to come under increasing pressure from conservative leaders, some of whom are known to oppose waldheim's staying on as president
waldheim said last week he had canceled a scheduled speech during a solemn meeting on march 11 to commemorate the annexation of austria by nazi germany 50 years ago. he will give a televised broadcast instead on march 10
two socialist ministers had said they would boycott the session if waldheim addressed it
new president roh tae-woo freed 125 dissidents on saturday and lifted political restrictions on hundreds of others, but opposition leaders called the amnesty a political trick disguised as reform
also saturday, roh's governing democratic justice party proposed that crucial elections to the national assembly be held in mid-april. the announcement came as the two major opposition parties prepared to merge
roh's government said it released the dissidents from prisons nationwide and restored the civic rights and reduced the prison terms of 1,606 other political detainees. loss of civic rights bars an individual from participating in politics
the government said the amnesty was granted as part of its promise to introduce full democracy. roh approved the move after meeting with his cabinet for the first time since his inauguration on thursday
the political detainees were included in a larger amnesty program for 7,234 people, most of them common criminals
the national coalition for democracy, a major dissident group, ripped the amnesty as fraud and said it would fight to secure the release of about 1,200 political detainees it says still are in jail
we denounce the roh government for fooling the people by playing a game of numbers,'' the coalition said in a statement
the government said the amnesty program only left 276 political prisoners, of whom 216 were awaiting trial and and 60 were guilty of violent crimes
about 100 dissident leaders and relatives of dissidents still in prison staged a demonstration saturday in front of the national council of churches building in seoul. ``release all prisoners,'' they shouted, but passersby showed little interest
scuffles broke out as riot police barred the way when the protesters tried to march. the outnumbered protesters punched and kicked police but were prevented from marching
dissident leader rev. moon ik-hwan, who had his civic rights restored under the amnesty, told protesters the program still was a fraud
as long as there is a single dissident in jail, democracy cannot be achieved,'' he said
among those excluded from the amnesty were prominent dissidents chang ki-pyo and kim kun-tae, both serving seven-year terms for allegedly inciting riots. amnesty international and other human rights groups have demanded kim's release
another leading dissident, lee tae-bok, had his sentence reduced from 20 years to 15 years
roh, who took office with a promise to introduce sweeping democratic reforms, said the amnesty was intended to build public confidence and underline the government's determination to end decades of authoritarian rule
information minister chung han-mo urged those included in the amnesty to work with the new government to build democracy
top opposition leader kim dae-jung denounced roh's government at a rally saturday in seoul attended by about 4,000 cheering people. he urged people to vote for the opposition in upcoming legislative elections
but he also said he was willing to give roh a chance to meet his promise to usher in full democracy. ``i can cooperate with roh as the incumbent ruler in power if he carries out sweeping reforms, including complete freedom, release of all political prisoners and full guarantee of other civil rights,'' he said
meanwhile, officials from the democratic justice party said they would accept an opposition election formula to speed an agreement on holding the legislative elections
after months of bitter wrangling, the main opposition reunification democratic party and the breakaway party for peace and democracy agreed on friday to merge. the rift between the two parties was credited with splitting the opposition vote during the december election and vaulting roh into power. pickup.</note>
an aeroflot passenger plane crashed on landing today at an airport in western siberia, resulting in deaths and injuries, the official tass news agency said
tass said the tupolvev-134 airliner ``met with an accident while landing'' at the city of surgut, 1,400 miles east of moscow. the report did not say how many people were aboard, or how many had been killed
measures were being taken to rescue people. necessary aid is being given to the crash victims. there is loss of life,'' tass said in a three-paragraph report
the causes of the disaster are being investigated by a special commission,'' it said
domestic aeroflot flights usually are filled to capacity. depending on the seating configuration, the tu-134, which has twin turbofan engines, can carry from 80 to 96 passengers, according to jane's all the world's aircraft
tass said the flight had originated in minsk, with stops in kuibyshev and tyumen, before a final scheduled landing in surgut
for the first time since 1928, a u.s. governor faces trial before his legislature monday. in the following report, an ap special correspondent offers a portrait of arizona, its people and their governor at the crossroads of impeachment
for evan mecham, arizona's governor-in-exile, it has come to high noon
here in the land of geronimo and wyatt earp and the ok corral, a part of america never known for pussyfooting, the arizona senate on monday begins the final act in a course of redress not seen in this nation in more than half a century. it will decide whether to remove the impeached governor from office
members of the senate will not predict the outcome, only that it likely will be close and that however it turns out there will be, politically speaking, a lot of blood left on the ground
it's ripping up our party and state in a fashion that's going to take years to recover,'' says u.s. sen. john mccain
when mccain and three other republican members of arizona's congressional delegation suggested that fellow republican mecham resign, the senator began receiving hate mail by the sackful
the mob that crucified our precious lord is the same kind of mob that is after our governor,'' wrote one constituent
the other day about 2,000 mecham supporters took out their anger, while raising money for his defense, by bashing an automobile with a sledgehammer, three licks for a dollar. the car was painted with slogans such as ``media bias,'' identifying what they perceived as the causes of the governor's predicament
the arizona house approved impeachment articles feb. 5 accusing mecham of concealing a $350,000 campaign loan, misusing $80,000 from funds raised by his inauguration committee, and trying to thwart an investigation into a state official's alleged death threat against a witness in a grand jury probe of mecham
the 63-year-old, staunchly conservative governor also had antagonized many arizonans with controversial statements on ethnic groups and social issues
after the vote, mecham stepped down provisionally as governor and moved into political exile, in an office in nearby glendale. now the house charges are to be tried in the 30-member senate, where 20 votes would convict him and remove him permanently from office
but not even the extreme measure of an impeachment trial is likely to put to rest the turmoil in arizona. if mecham survives, he still faces a criminal trial for not reporting the campaign loan and a recall election resulting from a public petition
recall election? all right then, said mecham supporters, and began circulating petitions to recall as well house members who voted for the governor's impeachment
yes, there is little stability these days in arizona politics
anywhere in arizona, for that matter
the phoenix area, maricopa county, is the second-fastest-growing urban area in america, just behind san diego. it gains one new citizen every 12 minutes. that's net gain. state figures also show that for every four newcomers, three others move out
all that coming and going causes such instability that one mental health organization recommended a state program to discourage growth. arizona, for instance, has one of the nation's highest divorce rates, a suicide rate 50 percent higher than the national average and, among adolescents, 70 percent higher. it also ranks last in per-capita funding for mental health
we have an enormous amount of work to do in this state,'' says state sen. greg lunn, a tucson republican
that's another reason why the impeachment is such a distracting turn of events. the senate will be tied up with it for weeks. important matters that should be dealt with this session will have to be deferred to the next.''
lunn has a special interest in environmental matters. well he might. the phoenix area is promoted to tourists and potential settlers as the valley of the sun. but dust and emissions and temperature inversions conspire against the sun. phoenix's smog rivals the worst in the nation. so do its traffic jams. 2nd graf pvs, bgng: statewide, the xxx</note>
maine republicans, attracted by an energetic pat robertson challenge to part-time resident george bush, continued to turn out in heavy numbers today during the party's first consolidated caucus weekend
in augusta, more than 300 people gathered this morning for kennebec county caucuses. ``the level of interest is strong,'' said robertson campaign organizer mark finks. ``the enthusiasm originates from my candidate. we're turning out in massive numbers.''
on friday, robertson won a tie in portland and a clear-cut victory in caribou, but bush's campaign appeared to add to its commanding lead in state convention delegates
statewide, the bush campaign claimed friday to have won 166 of the first 234 slots awarded. bush's count gave robertson 28, bob dole 20, and jack kemp 5, with 15 uncommitted
the delegates totaled by the bush campaign included 137 previously elected in caucuses in 43 towns since late january. the republicans will select the rest of the 1,506 state delegates during caucuses today and sunday
those delegates will gather at the state convention in bangor in april to select 22 delegates to the republican national convention
the results of the republican caucuses do not bind state convention delegates and party leaders are not compiling the local tallies immediately
in portland on friday night, supporters of bush and robertson battled raucously over voting rules until robertson backers, aided by a small faction for dole, voted to force the caucus to scrap its winner-take-all standard for awarding delegate slots
in the presidential preference poll that followed, robertson drew 130 votes, bush 127, and dole 30. bush and robertson each were awarded 15 delegates to the april convention in bangor while dole got 3
in caribou, robertson defeated the combined forces of bush and dole, 75-72, and collected all eight delegates, according to unofficial reports
gov. john r. mckernan jr., who attended the portland caucus to bolster the bush drive and conducted some of the private brokering with the dole campaign himself, said ``the wild card'' there and around the state was ``how many new people who we've never seen before the robertson campaign is able to get out.''
later, he told caucus participants that they should be prepared to unite behind the party's nominee after this summer's national convention
in an overture to robertson partisans, mckernan offered greetings on behalf of gop regulars, saying ``how pleased we are to have you a part of the process.''
earlier, as bush organizers sounded out the dole camp in hopes of blocking the proportional representation motion, robertson backers erupted with derisive chants of ``backroom deal'' and ``railroad.''
state party chairwoman karen stram, watching the portland voting, acknowledged that feelings were running high in the various camps. stram said her job was ``to be sure that everyone comes out of it feeling they got a fair shake.''
she said statewide turnout in the caucuses could reach 15,000 or more by the end of the weekend
no question, we're up three times at least'' over previous years, she said
maine's democrats caucus on sunday. from northwest, and deleting outdated and redundant material; picks up 15th graf pvs, `about 6,700 xxx</note>
a union representing 6,700 flight attendants at northwest airlines called a strike today after all-night negotiations collapsed, a union official said
william genoese, international director of the teamsters union's airline division, said workers were being told to walk out, but refused to specify how broad the walkout would be
it might be one city, it might be two cities, it might be three cities,'' said genoese when asked whether the strike was general or selective. genoese, who had earlier said selective strikes were possible to disrupt the airline's services, refused to elaborate
a spokesman for northwest said today the airline was preparing to carry out its strike-management program, but added that there was as yet no concrete sign that a strike had started
we did everything we possibly could to avoid a strike,'' genoese said. ``apparently the company feels it wants to take a strike on. if we want to close down the airline, we can close it down. they've got their hands full.''
teamsters spokeswoman barbara graham, at union temporary offices at hotel near detroit metropolitan airport, said shortly after genoese's announcement that she had received no notice of a strike, but that the union was standing by
we're proceeding to implement our contingency plan,'' vice president of law and labor relations terry erskine said at northwest headquarters. about 2,000 managers trained as flight attendants have been posted throughout the northwest system with 200 newly-hired replacement flight attendants also ready to move, he said
erskine said the airline was prepared to handle the strike. ``we've been through this fire drill before,'' he said
representatives for northwest airlines and the union had continued negotiations after a midnight est deadline. in earlier statements, genoese said selective strikes would be used to keep the airline off balance
when you have them off balance, they can't put out the fire there and the fire over here,'' genoese said early this morning. ``that works to our advantage in the situation.''
genoese said selective strikes would begin taking place at various locations throughout the northwest system to _ in his words _ ``disrupt their service.''
we have a right to do it,'' genoese said
some 6,700 northwest flight attendants are represented by teamsters local 2747
jim halverson, a spokesman for the northwest unit of the air line pilots association, said about 20 union officials meeting in bloomington friday night would debate whether to honor picket lines
we feel we can pull a strike off without (the pilots') support,'' local 2747 spokesman jeff musto said. ``if we get it it will be like an ace in the hand.''
the machinists union representing northwest mechanics gave its support to an attendants' strike, but union representatives did not say whether machinists would honor attendants' picket lines
northwest spokesman redmond tyler said the machinists are under a contract that forbids them to strike in sympathy with another union
wage scales, pensions and work rules are among the major issues in the dispute. former republic airlines flight attendants have been working under their old contract since northwest acquired republic in 1986, and many former republic employees are paid less than their northwest counterparts
the company, the nation's fifth-largest airline, is trying to bring the workers under one contract and offered to bring former republic employees up to the salary levels of northwest employees. but the union claimed the airline is compensating by reducing vacation pay and retirement benefits
once outside phoenix, however, or tucson, the state's only two urban areas, you can drive for hours without seeing another car. geographically as well as politically and socially, arizona is a state of stunning contrasts and contradictions
the state is sixth in the nation in size but its 3.35 million population ranks 25th. three-fourths of its people live in the phoenix and tucson metropolitan areas. the rest live in villages and towns scattered across mountains and deserts and forests staggering in their solitude, and, in many areas, their poverty
in rural areas much of the frontier west prevails, and not just in the rigorously independent attitude of the people. at cordes junction, near prescott, the cafe requires patrons to check their weapons at the door. many do just that, since in arizona it's perfectly legal to pack a gun openly
rivalry in arizona is fierce between city and country for the state's attention to their needs. mecham was supported by rural voters who saw his two election opponents as representing the phoenix elite. his impeachment intensifies those jealousies
feelings for and against evan mecham are held with such passion that some longtime friends are reluctant to bring up the subject, not knowing how the other stands
some things are better left unspoken,'' said a phoenix businessman
although mecham's impeachment is topic a in the hotel lobbies and cocktail lounges of phoenix and tucson, many arizonans treat politics, including this turn of events, with a yawn
only about 60 percent of eligible arizonans have registered to vote. of those, little more than half turned out for the three-way election that put mecham in office; of those only 40 percent voted for mecham
nonetheless, since becoming a state in 1912 _ the youngest of the contiguous 48 _ arizona has produced its share of national political figures. two arizonans sit on the u.s. supreme court, justice sandra day o'connor and chief justice william rehnquist
carl hayden went to congress from arizona in 1912 and served until he retired in 1964. he won his last senate term in 1962 by defeating evan mecham. arizona's sen. barry goldwater ran for president in 1964
conservative patriarch goldwater supported mecham for governor but was one of the first to ask that he resign, even though it meant a democrat, secretary of state rose mofford, would become acting governor
enough's enough,'' said goldwater
another arizonan, john rhodes, former minority leader in the u.s. house, announced he would give up his retirement and, at 71, run against mecham in the recall election scheduled for may
i just don't want to see the state go down the drain,'' rhodes said
in the corridors of the state capitol the perception is that among those who want him removed from office mecham's alleged criminal wrongdoing is less important than his style and values as governor
he has polarized the state,'' said state sen. lunn
instead of practicing the art of the possible, the art of compromise, of bringing people together, he has brought a narrow, ideological and personal agenda and is trying to shove it down people's throats.''
on his second day in office mecham began alienating large numbers of arizonans by canceling a holiday honoring the rev. martin luther king jr., claiming it was established illegally by his predecessor. later he made statements seen by some as slurs on blacks and orientals. he dismissed those petitioning for his recall as ``dissident democrats and homosexuals.''
now it comes down to the impeachment trial itself
only 15 u.s. governors have faced impeachment proceedings. only seven were removed from office, the last oklahoma's henry simpson johnston in 1928
thomas jefferson was once impeached, in 1781 as governor of virginia. his accuser was patrick henry, who thought jefferson left the capital with unseemly haste when british troops attacked. jefferson insisted on a trial and won vindication
so evan mecham, it appears, is in pretty good company. but, then, so are his accusers
north florida farmer fred williams has an analysis of the super tuesday primaries across the south and elsewhere: ``there are too many hogs in the creek and the water is muddy.''
little more than a week from the regionwide presidential primaries in both parties, his farm analogy remains apt. the picture in both parties hasn't entirely cleared, and the races remain crowded
super tuesday, the closest the nation has ever come to a national primary, could crystallize the nomination races, particularly on the republican side. but there's as much likelihood it won't
pat robertson is a wild card that threatens to confuse the republican race. he has the opportunity to do well, maybe even win, in some small-turnout primaries in areas where he built devoted followings through years as a television evangelist
and if no democrat strongly emerges, that race may not come close to being decided on march 8 and the field will move on to the next round of northern industrial states, still crowded with three or four candidates
super tuesday is not fulfilling the wishes of its founders,'' said university of virginia political scientist larry sabato
twenty states hold democratic primaries or caucuses on tuesday, march 8, and they stretch from massachusetts to florida to idaho; there are 17 gop contests. the day is mainly southern, with 14 contests in southern or border states. democrats also hold a caucus in american samoa
at stake are 1,307 democratic and 712 republican delegates _ about one-third the total in both parties
southern legislators set the whole thing up with the aim of providing a conservative or moderating influence on the democratic nomination process, countering and perhaps stealing the thunder of earlier contests. the gop went along, often because democrats control the legislatures in those southern states
the primary may yet move the democratic nominee to the right. but it didn't diminish the early contests. wins in iowa and new hampshire have helped propel richard gephardt and michael dukakis in polls of the south
and so far no single democrat has emerged with broad appeal across the south _ the region democrats agree they must carry to regain the white house
among the republicans, the south looks like george bush territory. president reagan has always been popular there and the vice president has successfully _ so far at least _ managed to appear the heir. polls show him leading dole two-to-one or better in the region
he has the added benefit of a southern organization regarded as unsurpassed. but all those strengths looked as thin as the paper they were written on when bush appeared on the verge of losing new hampshire to sen. bob dole
bush won, of course, but dole, robertson and new york rep. jack kemp hope to attack bush's base and prove it broad but thin
kemp needs to do well somewhere in the south to be able to sustain his campaign and the argument that he is the conservative alternative
robertson, who became known across the south and elsewhere as host of the ``700 club'' program on his own religious cable network, has drawn a line in the dirt of south carolina. he needs to win somewhere, and he says that's where it will be
south carolina isn't a super tuesday state; its gop caucuses are three days earlier. but it is being watched
bush has organizational and institutional strength there. but robertson contends the state is fertile ground for him too. its gop primary usually has a low voter turnout, and crossover democratic voting is allowed _ a made-to-order formula for robertson's strength based in fundamentalist churches
dole is contesting the state, too, but could finish third. dole must pick his shots and concentrate in areas where he can profit under the gop's winner-take-all rules in many congressional districts and states
should robertson produce victories in the south, the gop race could prove a prolonged and bitter fight with bush, dole and robertson. but robertson must still demonstrate he has appeal beyond his evangelical base and can be more than a disruptive force for the gop
jesse jackson leads in the polls in many southern states and is certain to do well in states with heavy black voting populations. he wants to do well in the south but will go on to the convention in atlanta this summer regardless
he's going to have enough votes to play somebody's fiddle,'' said williams, the grand ridge, fla., farmer who backs jackson. ``they'll trade for votes just like we trade pigs and cows.''
dukakis has run well in some southern polls and has a good organization in many states. as governor of massachusetts, he carries the image of a liberal state that triggers opposition in many southern quarters
there is just an innate fear of somebody from massachusetts,'' said louisiana democratic chairman james brady. ``they're associated with tip o'neill and teddy kennedy.''
but dukakis hopes to win florida, where he has strong support in the southern end of the state, and perhaps texas too. with massachusetts voting that day as well he could be the big delegate winner
sen. albert gore jr. of tennessee has tried to position himself to the right of the democratic field, depicting the rest as liberal ``peas in a pod.'' he must do well across the region, and polls have shown him running as high as second and as low as fourth in the region
rep. richard gephardt, winner in iowa and south dakota, is also attracting conservative and moderate democratic voters in some states with his well-honed appeal to concerns about foreign competition and a message that america is in economic decline
he has shown strength among blue-collar voters, and so far has concentrated his effort in the economically hard-hit energy-producing states of the south, where his call for an oil-import fee is a further boost. a texas poll had him leading that huge delegate state but falling back after dukakis won new hampshire
sen. paul simon of illinois has no visible southern strength. gary hart appears to be fading
with so broad a field and so many contests, how will we know who wins super tuesday?
florida and texas are the big prizes, and if a candidate carries both of those, it will be hard for anyone else to argue they won super tuesday, although some no doubt will
as the nomination race moves on, delegates are what matters. massachusetts has the next biggest democratic total, and dukakis figures to get most of them. jackson, too, will get a big share of southern delegates
still another measure will be the cross-over voting. it is allowed in eight of southern and border super tuesday states _ alabama, arkansas, georgia, mississippi, missouri, tennessee, texas and virginia
a big republican primary vote in those states, at the cost of democratic votes, could be a harbinger for the fall. picks up 23rd gaf pvs, `american military ...</note>
deposed president eric arturo delvalle was under virtual house arrest today after calling for a nationwide strike against the nation's military strongman, gen. manuel antonio noriega
reporters counted at least nine armed policemen manning barricades blocking the short street in panama city where delvalle's home is located
other policemen were in the front yard of delvalle's small house. the policemen refused access to all people into the street or the house. residents in the area said police sealed off the street late friday
u.s. rep. dan burton, who was in panama, said he and u.s. ambassador arthur h. davis were prevented from visiting delvalle on friday night
the noriega troops that were guarding the residence were just adamant _ they said they were ordered not to let anyone in or out,'' burton, r-ind., told the indianapolis star newspaper
the two were stopped by a half a dozen guards at one of end of the street, burton said. he and davis then tried to go around to the other end of the street but were again stopped by armed guards
the congressman was in panama for two days of meetings he'd scheduled earlier to see if the countries could piece together an effective drug interdiction effort
burton said he did not believe delvalle was in any danger, ``but i sense uneasiness throughout the area.''
noriega, under indictment in the united states on drug trafficking charges, has acccused the united states of engineering delvalle's failed attempt thursday night to fire him as military chief
the national assembly voted to oust delvalle hours after he announced his plan to get rid of noriega
i don't have a seat of government, nor military support, but i do have two million panamanians who are tired and bored of living under a regime that one man has governed capriciously, and because of that i call for national resistance to paralyze the entire country starting monday,'' delvalle told reporters friday night
delvalle also urged a worldwide trade embargo against panama
the opposition national civic crusade called an immediate general strike. the coalition of 200 groups has been calling for noriega's ouster since last june
in washington, president reagan said the united states was not behind delvalle's attempt to get rid of noriega, but was ``very much aware of it.'' he said there were no plans for u.s. military intervention in panama
in a 10-minute emergency session early friday, a pro-noriega quorum in the 67-seat national assembly fired delvalle as president. education minister manuel solis palma was then sworn in as new chief executive
noriega has run the country since 1983, controlling the 15,000-member police and defense forces
panama city was quieter than usual friday, with fewer vehicles and people on the streets, but businesses were operating normally
soldiers surrounded and closed the chamber of commerce building, headquarters for the national civic crusade and the government shut down opposition news media
police closed the offices of the christian democratic party, whose president, ricardo arias calderon, has been a leader of the crusade movement. arias calderon was detained when he arrived on a commercial flight from miami thursday night and put on a flight to costa rica
also, panamanian authorties refused entry to three u.s. journalists when they arrived friday in a charter plane from costa rica
asked in an interview with the government's radio nacional if the united states was involved in delvalle's attempt to remove him, noriega said: ``totally, they have maintained a web.''
they have been using a web that includes psychological warfare ... slander, lies, insults, conspiracy, and ... misinformation.''
american military personnel in panama were on alert and civilians were told to keep a low profile. the 10,000-troop u.s. southern command, which runs u.s. military operations in latin america, is based in the canal zone
the united states has called for noriega's removal since he was indicted in florida on feb. 5 on drug trafficking charges. the indictment says noriega allegedly let colombian narcotics traffickers use panama as a base for smuggling cocaine and marijuana into the united states, receiving kickbacks from drug profits
noriega has blamed protests that began last summer and the indictment on efforts by u.s. rightists to prevent transfer of the panama canal to this country by the end of 1999
a navy trident 1 missile was launched successfully from a submerged submarine off cape canaveral today, ending a streak of three trident failures, officials said
it was excellent, there were no flaws whatsoever,'' said air force spokesman herb illingworth. none of the russian trawlers frequently present for such launches were present, he added
the missile was fired down the air force eastern space and missile test range at 10:27 a.m. est from the uss stonewall jackson and landed in the atlantic ocean. the distance of the shot was not released
it was the 55th trident 1 launch since 1977 and the 30th from a submerged submarine, illingworth said
in the last six months, the navy has had three consecutive missile failures
a trident 1 launched from a submarine in august 1987 failed. a more powerful trident 2 malfunctioned and was destroyed by remote control after a jan. 21 land launch. a second trident 1 missile blew up 18 seconds after lifting off from a submerged submarine on feb. 6, officials said. conference; picks up 4th graf pvs, bgng: questions had...</note>
gary hart today dispelled rumors that he would end his presidential campaign, saying he was remaining in the democratic race, although acknowledging he has little chance of winning
i came back into this race and intend to stay in this race because the democratic party must have a voice for reform and change,'' hart said at a news conference this morning
hart, who dropped out of the race and re-entered it last year saying he wanted to ``let the people decide,'' told reporters today that ``i've heard from the voters. i want to hear from a few more, but i understand the message.''
hart said his chances of winning the democratic presidential nomination were ``remote, to say the least.''
under these political circumstances, hart said he normally would have decided to quit the race, but he added that ``i don't think these are normal times.''
hart issued a schedule of campaign stops and speeches around the south between now and march 4
questions had arisen over whether hart was planning to announce he was withdrawing from the race but aides to the former colorado senator said earlier that he was going to stay
he is having a news conference. he's not dropping out of the race,'' bobbie mccallum, hart's liaison at his denver campaign headquarters, said friday
the five other democratic contenders were in atlanta for a georgia state democratic party dinner on friday. hart did not attend the dinner but arrived in atlanta late friday and was scheduled to participate in a democratic debate there later today
hart's campaign has failed to catch fire since he re-entered the race in december after dropping out the previous may amid questions about his relationship with model donna rice. he had been the undisputed front-runner before he quit the race
in rejoining the race, hart said he came back because ``i have the power of ideas and i can govern this country.''
after finishing dead last among democrats in the new hampshire primary earlier this month, hart vowed to remain in the race despite his poor showing
hart made an unsuccessful bid for the democratic presidential nomination in 1984
president reagan will join nato leaders this week at a summit designed to cement the solidarity of the 16-nation alliance and strengthen his hand for arms-control bargaining with soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev
early tuesday morning, reagan will board air force one and fly to brussels, belgium, for two days of talks beginning wednesday with the heads of state or government of the western alliance. the meetings at nato headquarters will be the organization's first full-scale summit in six years
with the exception of an opening statement the first day and closing remarks on thursday, all of the sessions will be in private
thorny problems on basing rights for u.s. military forces as well as west german reluctance about modernizing short-range nuclear weapons are expected to remain on the shelf as nato leaders try to highlight areas of agreement
there is a good chance for a love-in. it looks as though they have it pretty well wired,'' said robert e. hunter, director of european studies for the washington-based center for strategic and international studies
anything that comes out ought to show that the alliance is strong and that everybody is working together and moving together basically in the same direction,'' said a senior white house official, speaking on condition of anonymity
nobody's going in there looking for confrontation,'' the official added
the meeting offers a chance to review how to deal with the challenge to nato by gorbachev's public relations offensive to give him the image of a champion of peace and disarmament
it also could highlight that although a lame-duck reagan is losing his clout on domestic policy at home, he still commands respect as a world leader
i think a lot of time is going to be spent among the leaders talking about east-west relations, talking about change in the soviet union, talking about what's real and what's just words and how that guides us in dealing with our public,'' said one official, speaking at a white house briefing on condition of being identified only as a senior administration official
the official said the problem of the warsaw pact's overwhelming superiority in conventional military forces will have ``a very central place'' in the talks and be the subject of ``a lot of time.''
however, it was understood there was difficulty in producing a hoped-for statement on conventional weapons because of disagreement about what should go into it
sensitive questions on the pace of modernizing battlefield nuclear weapons in europe will be looked at only broadly, the official said, with nuts-and-bolts discussions left for meetings of defense ministers and foreign ministers
likewise, the official said ``it would be a perilous way to go'' to have the leaders tackle differences over u.s. bases in spain, greece and portugal. instead, those problems will be left to negotiators who have been working on the issue
given budget pressures in the united states, one question will be how nato nations can absorb a greater share of the defense burden, or as the administration official said, ``how do you stay stronger with less money.''
to counter gorbachev's peace offensive, reagan can be expected to trumpet the signing in washington of a u.s.-soviet treaty to eliminate intermediate-range nuclear missiles (inf)
the summit falls within three months of an expected reagan-gorbachev meeting in moscow in late may or early june. in fact, a team of white house planners will break off from the presidential party at the conclusion of the brussels meeting next thursday and fly to moscow to begin planning the superpower summit
if, as expected, reagan gets strong backing in brussels, he can go to moscow saying he has the alliance behind him
if you don't have an alliance that's split, you're dealing from a position of strength,'' the white house official said
hunter said the allies ``believe that gorbachev got the better part of the deal on the inf treaty, and they want to be reassured that in moscow the president will have deep concern for european interests. and he (reagan) will say all the right things next week (to reassure them).''
reagan already has taken some of the steam out of the drive for a treaty to cut u.s. and soviet strategic nuclear weapons by 50 percent. he said in an interview there is too little time to complete an agreement before he goes to moscow
white house planners said the nato summit also could produce one or two more senate votes for the inf treaty. however, the agreement already seems assured of ratification by an overwhelming margin. of lagoon's name and clarify. pick up 8th pvs, `the gray...'</note>
the mexican government is creating what it says will be the world's largest wildlife preserve to safeguard the gray whale, which migrates to the baja california coast each year
it is the longest journey of any mammal, from the waters of northern seas off alaska to the lagoons of mexico to give birth and then mate each winter
mexican officials say the land and sea ``reserve of the biosphere'' is necessary to protect the whales and other species from the effects of development and overzealous tourists, as well as to provide facilities for scientists to carry out their studies
they take special glee in noting that the other stops along the whales' route, canada and the united states, have yet to take such stringent measures to protect the once nearly extinct species
the whales leave the northern waters each october and travel toward baja california, swimming four to five miles each day and staying five to 10 miles off the coast the entire way. they generally reach mexico in december and remain until march
spouts of water vapor glistening in the sun announce the whales' presence at scammon's lagoon, whose spanish name is ojo de liebre (eye of the hare), almost midway down the long peninsula
then the noise of their movement, a powerful swoosh, breaks the sea's stillness. parts of the 35-ton whales themselves are visible after the noise
the gray whale, unique in its coast-hugging habits, was hunted virtually to extinction by 1930. restrictions on commercial whaling since have helped bring about a comeback, and scientists now estimate that there are as many as 18,000 gray whales
the 7.2 million acre reserve takes in much of the peninsula's biscayne desert and extends into the open sea
three previous decrees had established refuges for the whales in the waters of the four major lagoon areas used by the whales, but ecologists say it was not enough to consider the marine zone as a separate entity from the land
we have acted responsibly,'' urban development and ecology secretary manuel camacho solis said in announcing the plans. ``it is an integral system ... to protect the habitat.''
scientists and ecological activists caution that the decree, although important, must be followed by serious control and supervision of the area if it is to prove effective
i think it is a very great effort of mexico to decree such a large area a biological reserve, in a country that is economically in crisis,'' said the poet homero aridjis, leader of the ecological activist group of 100. ``i couldn't think of anything better. it's magnificent.''
aridjis campaigned for the past year calling for greater government protection for the whales
although the mid-part of the baja california peninsula is sparsely populated, the major industrial salt exporting co. complex is located close by scammon's lagoon, a center of the whales' activity
the complex, known as essa, has joint government and japanese private ownership. it is the largest open salt mine in the world, exporting some 5 million tons annually
the maritime traffic has raised concern that diesel fuel spills could affect the lagoons
the government plan requires essa to present an environmental program
an ecology department study found that construction of piers and canals and the increase of solid waste in the area as the human population grew had affected the lagoons that are crucial to the whales' reproduction
mexican communal farms known as ``ejidos'' also are in the area, with agricultural and part-time fishing operations that affect the whales' habitat
tourism, especially boats that travel down the coast from california in the area, is noticeable and would be regulated more strictly under the government's new program
t-shirts sold in guerrero negro, essentially a salt company town with few tourist attractions, trumpet: ``visit baja california. 15,000 whales can't be wrong.''
tourism within reasonable limits is not regarded as automatically harmful to the whales, although the noise of the boats disturbs them
biologist luis fleischer, director of the national research program that has studied the marine mammals each winter for the past decade, said, ``well-run tourism can be beneficial, creating sympathy and interest.''
anelio aguayo, a leading researcher on whales at the national autonomous university of mexico, said some whales now have been found that round the tip of baja california to reproduce on the gulf of california coastline
he also said he hopes canada and the united states will follow mexico's example and protect other areas along the whale's migratory corridor, where industrial development often is greater
it's not only up to the government of mexico to declare zones of refuge and areas of protection for the gray whale,'' he said in an interview in mexico city
pulitzer prize-winning author charles fuller jr. had a few words of advice for the city's black youths, so he rented 20 billboards for a month
young people; stay free take pride in yourselves, graduate!!'' read the billboards featuring a young black man and woman in graduation gowns
fuller, 47, author of ``a soldier's play,'' spent about $7,000 on the billboards while his younger brother walter, 23, and his son charles 3rd, also 23, worked out the details for the project
it is not a whole lot, really,'' fuller said. ``but we thought maybe something on a billboard would be a way to get the attention of young people.''
you can't go out and preach on a corner. people won't listen to you,'' fuller said. ``more people will read that billboard than would ever listen to me and walt if we stood out on girard avenue handing out leaflets.''
a soldier's play,'' about bigotry on a southern military outpost during world war ii, when the army was still segregated, was made into the movie ``a soldier's story.''
britain's princess anne went door-to-door saturday along with health workers immunizing children in a shanty town
princess anne, daughter of queen elizabeth ii, walked through maputo's mavalane suburb and watched young children get measles vaccinations
after the visit, neighborhood women presented princess anne with gifts of basketwork, pottery and printed cloth. hundreds of young children sang ``long live england.''
later the princess, who is president of the save the children fund, visited a pre-school class, a woman's prison and a group of parents who have adopted orphan children
teen-age aids victim ryan white is going to washington, d.c., this week in hopes that his experience with the disease will help schools cope with others like him, his mother says
he wants to try to make it better for everybody else,'' jeanne white said friday
ryan and jill stewart, student council president at hamilton heights high school, are scheduled to speak to the presidential commission on aids at a public hearing thursday
after ryan, 16, was diagnosed as having acquired immune deficiency syndrome in december 1984, kokomo school officials and parents fought to keep him out of school. the whites moved to cicero, where ryan was accepted by the community and enrolled in classes
ryan plans to read to the commission excerpts from a paper he wrote for his school english class. the paper, titled the odyssey, recounts the problems he encountered at kokomo, white said
he wants to tell why education is important to him and why he wanted to go back to school. it outlines the fight to go back to school and some of the fear and panic that happened while he was attending school there.''
television actor alan thicke says he doesn't feel hypocritical about being co-host of the miss usa pageant, even though he belongs to eight animal-rights organizations
thicke has been criticized by animal-rights groups for his association with the beauty contest, which will award the winner of tuesday's finals a full-length mink coat and a mink jacket
thicke said friday he believes he would be more valuable behind the scenes than on the picket line with protesters who want to educate people about the cruelties they say the fur industry inflicts on animals
last month, tv game-show host bob barker ended his 21-year reign as the miss usa master of ceremonies when he quit to protest the mink giveaway
thicke, star of abc's ``growing pains'' and host of the saturday morning show ``animal crack-ups,'' said picketing the pageant was not the way to end animal cruelty
i invite those people to join any one of the eight groups that i am involved with and do some of the things that we do, such as meet with lobbyists and legislators,'' he said
spanish tenor jose carreras returned to his hometown saturday after four months in the united states to continue his convalesence from a bone marrow transplant to treat leukemia
carreras, 42, who appeared in good health alongside his personal physician dr. albert granena, told reporters he felt ``very content to come home.''
carreras spent the last four months in seattle, where he underwent special therapy, including a bone marrow transplant, at the fred hutchinson cancer research center, a leading leukemia treatment center
former interior secretary james watt says he thinks cuba's purported use of isolation camps for aids victims is a good idea, but he says the united states lacks the courage to do the same
watt, who served under president reagan from 1980-83, said he favors a quarantine and called aids ``the first politically protected disease in america.''
when a member of the audience asked whether such tactics would violate human rights, watt responded, `do you want an aids victim to sneeze on your salad when he's serving you at a local restaurant?''
experts say that acquired immune deficiency syndrome cannot be spread through casual contact. the disease, caused by a virus that damages the body's immune system, is spread most often through sexual contact and needles or syringes shared by drug abusers
speaking thursday at weber state college, watt said it was his statement about the ethnic makeup of his staff that forced him to quit. he described his staff as including ``a black, a white, two jews and a cripple.''
watt said he now agrees it was an ``insensitive statement,'' but feels the only offensive part of the comment was the use of the word cripple
the new word is handicapable,'' watt said. ``i'm from wyoming and didn't know that.''
students walking by the little red schoolhouse on the grounds of governor dummer academy, the nation's oldest boys boarding school, are likely to be thinking about calculus or on their way to play soccer
but 225 years ago, when the school opened, the tiny schoolhouse contained the only classroom on campus and the emphasis was on greek and latin
on march 1, 1763, 27 boys with names like theophilus parsons, eliphalet pearson and samuel sewall crowded into the two rooms. of the early graduates, one became a signer of the u.s. constitution, another the first u.s. postmaster general, two were appointed president of harvard and 16 served in congress
the gulf that separates that fledling institution from today's school, one of about 100 new england boarding schools, may seem tremendous. but students and faculty at the picturesque school 33 miles north of boston said the traditions that bound the first graduates have not changed
david williams, 60, has taught at governor dummer since 1951. like samuel moody, who greeted the first boys at the school in 1763, williams is a ``senior master,'' a teacher considered a ``24-hour-a-day influence.'' he has also coached athletics and served as a dorm master for years
williams typifies the school's philosophy of combining a family atmosphere with strict discipline and a heavy dose of sports
williams said he remained at the school ``because i loved the kids. i never encountered such a genuine relationship between old and young.''
many of the 342 students at the school, where girls were admitted in 1971, echo such sentiments
stephen kim, 18, of concord, transferred here from the middlesex school and said ``i'm a lot happier. it's a much better environment.''
it's more of a family atmosphere,'' said amy russell, 16, from hampton falls, n.h. ``there's a lot of bonding here because you know everybody.''
both students and faculty here claim that their school is less stereotypically elite than more prestigious schools like phillips exeter academy in new hampshire, or choate, in connecticut
it's not as cliquey here,'' said amy shafmaster, 15, of durham, n.h. ``you can't really tell how rich someone is here the way you can at other schools.''
faculty and students admit that the cloistered environment of today's school is more removed from the real world than it was when the school was first founded by the will of lt. gov. william dummer of the massachusetts bay province
we're babied a little because we're so sheltered here,'' said michelle kahn, 16, from atlanta. ``we should have to make more decisions.''
the curriculum is strict but well-rounded; art is a required course. a senior's typical workload might include advanced biology, calculus, religion, u.s. history, english and ``advanced improvisational music.''
the cost for boarding school students is $12,700; nonboarding day students also attend. school officials said almost all graduates enter college
drugs and alcohol have been an issue on campus but discipline problems at the school seem trite by comparison with public schools. one student was expelled recently for stealing several cases of soda from the headmaster's house
peter bragdon, 52, the school's 26th headmaster, dismisses any notions that boarding schools like governor dummer are arcane ivory towers
there are eternal laws and values that do not vary over time,'' bragdon said about the conventional values still taught at the school. he said boarding schools offer students superior academic standards as well as a more stable adolescence
boarding schools often give fairer treatment to (teen-agers) than parents do,'' bragdon said
a bomb attached to a motorcycle exploded saturday in a town near the afghan border, killing five people and injuring 11, officials said
police, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the blast occurred in the afternoon at the main bazaar in tal, about 10 miles east of the afghan border
they said three of the dead and nine of the wounded were afghan refugees
about 3.5 million people from afghanistan have sought shelter in pakistan since afghanistan's civil war broke out in april 1978
there was no immediate claim of responsibility for the explosion. the pakistan government has blamed a spate of terrorist bombings in the past year on agents of afghanistan's soviet-backed government
an estimated 115,000 soviet troops are in afghanistan helping the marxist government fight a moslem insurgency
democrats are vowing to continue the fight for campaign spending reform that led to a 53-hour filibuster last week, possibly by introducing a constitutional amendment that would allow congress to set federal limits
we must not and we will not give up this fight,'' sen. david boren, d-okla., said saturday in the weekly democratic radio address
this issue simply does not grab the headlines, like a foreign policy emergency or a financial crisis. yet it is just as serious,'' said boren, a principal author of the scuttled bill that would have set voluntary limits
the way we're financing campaigns in this country is like a silent deadly cancer eating away at the very heart of our democratic system. too much money pumped into campaigns, too many special interests threaten the integrity of the election process itself.''
senate majority leader robert byrd, d-w.v., already has said he plans to continue the quest to combat the escalating cost of winning senate seats
this issue will come back again and again,'' byrd said. ``it will not be swept under the rug.''
a senator in the middle of the partisan battle said democratic leaders are thinking about bringing a proposed constitutional amendment to the floor to replace the legislation effectively killed by stubborn opposition from minority republicans
the proposed amendment that would give congress the specific authority, now lacking because of a 1976 supreme court decision, to set mandatory limits on how much federal candidates can spend on campaigns
it's a distinct and likely possibility the constitutional amendment will surface in the next few weeks,'' said the senator, who spoke on condition of anonymity. the senator was a leader in last week's failed effort by democrats to get a vote on their bill to set voluntary spending limits
byrd would not say whether he planned to push the proposed constitutional amendment. ``that is one of the options,'' he said, and did not elaborate
the campaign spending bill, carrying 52 of the 100 senators as co-sponsors, was scuttled for the 1988 session friday when democrats fell seven votes short of the 60 they needed to curtail a gop talkathon and force a vote on the bill
the 53-41 roll call represented the eighth time since last june that republicans had defeated attempts by byrd to limit debate on the campaign spending bill
boren, in the radio address, called it a ``tragedy'' that members of both political parties could not agree on limiting campaign costs. he said the average cost of running a successful race for the u.s. senate has gone up 500 percent in 10 years to about $3 million and declared, ``it is time for us, all of us, to wake up and speak out before it's too late.''
we're not going to give up, either,'' said acting minority leader alan simpson, r-wyo. ``we have slayed the dragon eight times. ... the deed is done, and we ought to move on to other things.''
republicans refused to negotiate with democrats over spending limits, saying such restrictions would doom their party to minority status in states where democrats have a big edge in voter registration
they offered to discuss restricting how much special-interest political action committees can give to senate candidates, but democrats said that without spending limits, pacs would find other ways pump money into political campaigns
the proposed constitutional amendment has been laying fallow in the judiciary committee. its principal sponsor is sen. ernest hollings, d-s.c., who was not a co-sponsor of the voluntary limits bill
the hollings legislation is a response to the supreme court's buckley vs. valeo ruling in 1976 that held congress, absent a constitutional change, cannot restrict how much money a candidate can on a campaign
hollings' proposal, which has 19 sponsors, states simply that ``the congress may enact laws regulating the amounts of contributions and expenditures intended to affect elections to federal offices.''
a proposed amendment needs 67 votes to pass the senate, a similar two-thirds margin in the house and then ratification by at least 38 states
mathematics seem to be against byrd if he brings the hollings legislation to the floor. he needed 60 votes to force a roll call on the voluntary limit bill and never had more than 55, including two missing from friday's vote
however, the sponsor mix on the hollings bill is different than the one debated last week. three of its cosponsors _ richard shelby, d-ala., ted stevens, r-alaska, and strom thurmond, r-s.c. _ opposed cloture
if byrd could hold his 55 votes and pick up these three senators, he would need to find only two more to break any gop filibuster against the hollings bill
once this measure came to a vote, he would have to find the other votes for passage from a handful of republicans who are said to support spending limits but who stayed loyal to their party's position against the voluntary limit proposal
a woman celebrating her birthday was burned and temporarily blinded by a snail that exploded on her plate at a city restaurant, police said saturday
karen j. prouty, 36, of north syracuse, was about to take her second bite of a bubbling order of escargot friday night when one of the snails exploded, burning her around her right eye, police said. she couldn't see for about 90 minutes afterward
i just immediately broke down crying,'' prouty said saturday. she was treated at university hospital in syracuse and released friday night
the dinner at pascale's wine bar and restaurant was a birthday surprise arranged by her husband and sister, prouty said
the restaurant's owner, charles pascale, assured her he would pay for any medical expenses and for damage to her white linen dress, prouty said. he also offered her a free dinner
a restaurant worker referred a call saturday to maitre d' fred rosener, who was not immediately available for comment
but pascale told police the snail probably was blown apart by the pressure of steam building up in an air pocket
i enjoy escargot, but i probably will be very hesitant to order it again,'' prouty said
rear adm. anthony a. less took command saturday of the u.s. navy's escort squadron in the persian gulf, inheriting a force that u.s. officials say has lost no clout despite a cutback in strength
hours before the ceremony, two u.s. warships sailed through the strait of hormuz into the gulf to complete the restructuring that leaves 25 american warships in the region, including 16 in the gulf-based middle east force
less, a career aviator who once commanded the navy's famed ``blue angels'' jet acrobatics team, became the 36th commander of the middle east force in a shipboard ceremony that dates back to the british navy at the time of the american revolution in 1776
government officials and gulf area diplomats attended the wind-chilled, sunset event aboard the 17,000-ton amphibious assault ship coronado, newly designated flagship of the middle east force
the force has operated in the gulf since 1949, assigned to represent and protect u.s. national interests in the vital oil waterway
it attracted little recent attention until last year's controversial decision by the reagan administration to register 11 kuwaiti tankers under the u.s. flag, qualifying them for american protection from iranian attack
following that move, and the may 17 attack by an iraqi jet on the u.s. frigate stark in which 37 americans were killed, the navy's forces in the region grew to a peak strength of nearly 40 ships, including two battle groups in the arabian sea and indian ocean
inside the gulf, the force nearly tripled from about half a dozen vessels to 17 at the start of 1988
in a speech on board the coronado, gen. george b. crist, a marine who heads the u.s. central command, noted that a year ago the united states had only about six ships in the gulf
this rapid buildup of deterrent power and the successes we have achieved did not come easily,'' crist said. ``dramatic and often traumatic decisions and efforts were required.''
crist's tampa, fla.-based headquarters is responsible for u.s. military concerns in 19 countries from africa to pakistan, encompassing the middle east region
crist also said he understood the new commander's motto was ``do more with less,'' an allusion to the pentagon's move to trim the cost and size of the escort operation by cutting the force from 17 to 16 ships
on feb. 3, the 50-year-old less also assumed command of the joint task force middle east, the arabian sea support group that also has been scaled down
in saturday's ceremony, less replaced rear adm. harold j. bernsen, who has headed the middle east force since july 1986 and before that was skipper of the flagship la salle during the 1979 hostage crisis in iran and the outbreak of the iraq-iran war in 1980
u.s. officials recently estimated the cost of the operations at $15 million to $20 million a month, but said the cutback did not result from a budget squeeze or a lessening of the iranian threat
the united states will make no reciprocal gesture to moscow's decision to withdraw some nuclear missiles and troops from eastern europe, the u.s. ambassador to nato said saturday
alton g. keel jr. said the soviet move, rather than being a meaningful expression of good will, was part of an orchestrated campaign to convince west europeans that the soviet union is changing its ways
we, obviously from the u.s. standpoint, welcome the fact that they're withdrawing the missiles, but there'll be no similar action on the part of the u.s.,'' keel said in an interview at his official residence outside brussels
soviet soldiers on thursday left two bases in east germany and one garrison in czechoslovakia, taking with them the first nuclear missiles dismantled under a u.s.-soviet treaty eliminating all land-based nuclear rockets with ranges between 310 miles and 3,100 miles
the missiles moved out of east germany and czechoslovakia, known in the west as ss-12s, have ranges of up to 550 miles
the treaty signed by president reagan and soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev last dec. 8 does not require either side to withdraw or destroy any missiles until it has been ratified by both governments. the u.s. senate is expected to approve it by late spring
keel said washington could not withdraw any of its more than 400 tomahawk cruise and pershing 2 ballistic nuclear missiles from western europe until after the senate decides whether to ratify the treaty
he noted that the soviets have said they will not actually destroy any of the withdrawn ss-12 missiles until after the treaty has been ratified by the senate and by the soviet parliament, the supreme soviet
they obviously want to take as much advantage of their having been willing to enter into this agreement as possible, use it to advantage, try to convince european publics that there's been major new thinking in the soviet union,'' he said
keel said the united states already had shown its good will by voluntarily halting deployment of cruise and pershing 2 missiles as soon as the treaty was signed
we actually did concede something unilaterally, we conceded that we would no longer deploy systems,'' even though nato had not yet reached its original target of deploying 572 of the medium-range missiles, he said
the soviet move, he said, did little to increase the security of nato nations, which continues to be threatened by the existence of more than 1,400 short-range soviet nuclear missiles in europe and a warsaw pact numerical edge over the western alliance in non-nuclear arms
keel said it ``would be meaningful'' if moscow unilaterally withdrew some of its shortest-range nuclear arms and conventionally armed troops, but that nato would make no reciprocal gesture because its forces already are at a bare minimum to deter a possible soviet attack
here is the text of the democratic party's response, delivered by sen. david l. boren of oklahoma, to president reagan's radio address on saturday:
i welcome this chance to talk with you today, not as a democratic senator from oklahoma, but as a fellow american, about a problem that should concern all of us
have you ever had the urge to start shouting, ``wake up, wake up,'' to those around you to warn them about some danger that they just don't seem to see?
i had that feeling this past week as we debated about campaign reform in the u.s. senate
this issue simply does not grab the headlines like a foreign policy emergency or a financial crisis, yet is just as serious. the way we're financing campaigns in this country is like a silent deadly cancer eating away at the very heart of our democratic system
too much money pumped into campaigns by too many special interests threatens the integrity of the election process itself. did you know that in just 10 short years the average cost of running a successful race for the u.s. senate has gone up 500 percent, and that the average cost, in even small states, rose to $3 million?
that means that in order to finance a successful campaign for re-election, a sitting senator must raise an average of $10,000 in campaign contributions every single week of his or her six-year term. that's $10,000 every week for 300 weeks in a row
this money chase for campaign contributions raises several problems. first, it means that congressmen and senators are having to spend their time and energy raising campaign money instead of working to solve the serious problems facing our country
we need our congress on the job, and not having to go out and raise campaign funds. second, campaigns now cost so much that members can't raise enough to finance them from their home states alone. they have to fly all around the country to cities in other states where they can raise campaign funds instead of spending time in their own states listening to the people back home to learn about their problems
finally, to raise the millions of dollars in needed campaign funds, congressmen and senators have turned more and more to special interest groups and political action committees known as pacs. in the last election, almost 200 members elected to congress received over half of their campaign funds from pacs, often controlled by lobbyists in washington, instead of from the people back home
what's going to happen to grassroots democracy if this trend continues? americans must ask themselves, is it good for our country that the cost of campaigns has skyrocketed to $3 million? is it good for our country that the fastest growing source of these funds is from narrow special interest groups based outside a member's home state?
the american people say no. in a recent harris survey, 91 percent of those surveyed said this explosion of campaign costs is a serious problem and it must be addressed. ninety-one percent of the american people, democrats and republicans alike, want their respresentatives to act. this last week the senate tried to act. fifty-two senators, over half of the members, joined in sponsoring a bill to put limits on runaway campaign spending
tragically a determined minority blocked the senate from even being able to consider this bill. among democrats the vote was 48 to 2 in favor of action. among republicans, it was 38 to 3 against proceeding. i call this a tragedy because we should not break down along party lines. we need to unite as americans to solve this serious problem which affects all of us
the supporters of the bill offered to change it to make sure it would be fair to both political parties. but opponents said that they would never even discuss putting limits on campaign spending. we must not and we will not give up this fight
in a few weeks congressmen will spread out across this country to speak at high school graduating ceremonies. when we urge those students to some day think of running for office to serve their country, will we also to have to tell them that at the current rate of increasing campaign costs, 12 years from now when they're old enough to run, the average u.s. senate race will cost $15 million? will we have to challenge them not only to think about what they'd like todo to help their country, but also to think about how they will raise $15 million to run for the u.s. senate?
we must not let that happen to america. we must not cloud the future of the next generation. it's time for us, all of us, to wake up and speak out before it's too late
here is the text of the democratic party's response, delivered by sen. david l. boren of oklahoma, to president reagan's radio address on saturday:
i welcome this chance to talk with you today, not as a democratic senator from oklahoma, but as a fellow american, about a problem that should concern all of us
have you ever had the urge to start shouting, ``wake up, wake up,'' to those around you to warn them about some danger that they just don't seem to see?
i had that feeling this past week as we debated about campaign reform in the u.s. senate
this issue simply does not grab the headlines like a foreign policy emergency or a financial crisis, yet is just as serious. the way we're financing campaigns in this country is like a silent deadly cancer eating away at the very heart of our democratic system
too much money pumped into campaigns by too many special interests threatens the integrity of the election process itself. did you know that in just 10 short years the average cost of running a successful race for the u.s. senate has gone up 500 percent, and that the average cost, in even small states, rose to $3 million?
that means that in order to finance a successful campaign for re-election, a sitting senator must raise an average of $10,000 in campaign contributions every single week of his or her six-year term. that's $10,000 every week for 300 weeks in a row
this money chase for campaign contributions raises several problems. first, it means that congressmen and senators are having to spend their time and energy raising campaign money instead of working to solve the serious problems facing our country
we need our congress on the job, and not having to go out and raise campaign funds. second, campaigns now cost so much that members can't raise enough to finance them from their home states alone. they have to fly all around the country to cities in other states where they can raise campaign funds instead of spending time in their own states listening to the people back home to learn about their problems
finally, to raise the millions of dollars in needed campaign funds, congressmen and senators have turned more and more to special interest groups and political action committees known as pacs. in the last election, almost 200 members elected to congress received over half of their campaign funds from pacs, often controlled by lobbyists in washington, instead of from the people back home
what's going to happen to grassroots democracy if this trend continues? americans must ask themselves, is it good for our country that the cost of campaigns has skyrocketed to $3 million? is it good for our country that the fastest growing source of these funds is from narrow special interest groups based outside a member's home state?
the american people say no. in a recent harris survey, 91 percent of those surveyed said this explosion of campaign costs is a serious problem and it must be addressed. ninety-one percent of the american people, democrats and republicans alike, want their respresentatives to act. this last week the senate tried to act. fifty-two senators, over half of the members, joined in sponsoring a bill to put limits on runaway campaign spending
tragically a determined minority blocked the senate from even being able to consider this bill. among democrats the vote was 48 to 2 in favor of action. among republicans, it was 38 to 3 against proceeding. i call this a tragedy because we should not break down along party lines. we need to unite as americans to solve this serious problem which affects all of us
the supporters of the bill offered to change it to make sure it would be fair to both political parties. but opponents said that they would never even discuss putting limits on campaign spending. we must not and we will not give up this fight
in a few weeks congressmen will spread out across this country to speak at high school graduating ceremonies. when we urge those students to some day think of running for office to serve their country, will we also to have to tell them that at the current rate of increasing campaign costs, 12 years from now when they're old enough to run, the average u.s. senate race will cost $15 million? will we have to challenge them not only to think about what they'd like to do to help their country, but also to think about how they will raise $15 million to run for the u.s. senate?
we must not let that happen to america. we must not cloud the future of the next generation. it's time for us, all of us, to wake up and speak out before it's too late. iranian claims that iraqi helicopters downed. picks up 10th graf, `the iraqi ...'</note>
iraq said waves of its fighter-bombers attacked iran's key oil refineries in tehran and other cities saturday in strikes aimed at crippling iran's economy
iran responded quickly by shelling a border town. later it also shelled the southern iraqi port, basra, and vowed to strike baghdad
an iraqi military spokesman warned that if any iraqi city was hit ``all iranian cities, including tehran, will become targets for our missiles, air force jets and other weapons.''
saturday's raids and threats rekindled fears of a flare-up in the ``war of the cities,'' which has left thousands dead since 1984
tehran radio, monitored in nicosia, said at least one civilian was killed and an undisclosed number were wounded in the raid on the capital's southern suburbs. it did not mention the other raids
baghdad's official news agency said iranian artillery gunners retaliated by shelling basra and the border town of al-qurna, just north of the port city. it said five civilians were killed and 14 others wounded in basra. two civilians were killed and two others wounded in shelling on al-qurna, the agency said
iraqi authorities also reported carrying out evacuation exercises in baghdad, basra and other cities at risk of reprisals from iranian air, missile or artillery
the iraqi news agency said that apart from the raids on economic targets, the iraqi air force saturday flew 101 combat missions against iranian troops concentrations, the highest one-day total in months
helicopter gunships flew another 72 missions, it added
tehran radio said two iraqi helicopters were shot down. iraq's news agency denied the claim
the iraqi raids marked a sharp escalation in the stalemated 7-year-old war and came as iraq's army braced for new iranian ground offensives
tehran radio and ina, also monitored in nicosia, said the air raids took place just before noon
ina reported the iranian refineries were ``destroyed ... and shattered'' and left shrouded in flames and smoke. but it did not identify them
iran's main refineries are located near tehran, the northwestern city of tabriz, the central city of isfahan and the southern city of shiraz
a sustained air offensive against iran's industrial centers in 1986 cut its refining capacity of 625,000 barrels a day by almost half, forcing tehran to import petroleum products and ration gasoline for the first time since the war began
it was not clear whether saturday's reported raids marked the start of a new air offensive to throttle iran's war-battered economy. but the iraqi air force has been concentrating in recent months on hitting iran's oil exports, the country's economic jugular
ina quoted a military communique as saying ``large numbers'' of iraqi jets took part in the attacks ``deep inside iranian territory.''
it said all the planes returned safely to their bases
the refineries were iran's ``economic mainstays and linked with the war effort'' of ayatollah ruhollah khomeini's fundamentalist regime ``for prolonging aggression on iraq,'' the communqiue added
iran's war information headquarters in tehran swiftly announced that ``iraq's military and economic centers'' in baghdad and basra will be hit ``within the next few hours'' and urged civilians to evacuate areas around likely targets
it did not specify how iran would hit back. but the iranians, their badly depleted air force outnumbered 8-1 by iraq, usually retaliate against baghdad with soviet-made scud-b missiles supplied by libya and syria
basra is within easy range of iranian artillery and has been repeatedly bombarded in the last 18 months, with more than 1,500 civilians killed by some 62,000 shells
at appalling cost, iranian revolutionary guards battled to within six miles of basra a year ago and still hold a bridgehead in marshland east of the city
the iraqi air force last attacked major economic targets deep inside iran feb. 11, when its soviet-built mig-21 and sukhoi su-20 fighter-bombers raided a power plant and fuel depots in southwest iran and an electronics factory in shiraz
the iranian air force, despite chronic shortages of spares that have grounded most of its aging u.s.-made f-4 and f-5 planes, has also seen action recently, mainly attacking iraqi defenses and supply dumps around basra
these almost daily raids have heightened iraqi fears that the iranians plan a new offensive against the strategic city that lies on the shatt al-arab waterway, the prewar southern boundary between the two countries
the iranians have been massing troops in the southern sector since november, but have so far not launched any significant thrust there
western military analysts and diplomats in baghdad said the iranians have concentrated up to 150,000 men in the south
but the analysts believe iran cannot launch an all-out push because it has not been able to mobilize enough men to wage a sustained campaign
the white house cleanup crew was at work once again last week, attempting to clarify remarks president reagan made at his wednesday evening news conference
the president's comments were only the latest in what is an increasingly bulging file of eyebrow-raising statements he has made at news conferences over the years. the gaffes have ranged from erroneous economic statistics to misconstrued versions of events around the world
at wednesday's session, reagan remarked that palestinian unrest in israeli-occupied territory has been caused by ``outsiders coming in.''
it was followed quickly by a comment from secretary of state george shultz, who told reporters the conflict's ``fundamental origins are essentially indigenous.''
white house spokesman marlin fitzwater said the two answers were ``totally consistent as far as we're concerned.''
the president also asserted that shultz and former defense secretary caspar weinberger had not objected to the secret arms sale to iran on the grounds that it was an arms-for-hostages deal
shultz and weinberger have insisted that they did raise such objections, contentions supported by congress' iran-contra report and by a comment the president himself made a year ago
and reagan also spoke of divisions among blacks in white-ruled south africa, stating, ``it is a tribal policy more than it is a racial policy, and that is one of the most difficult parts here.''
fitzwater said he could not elaborate on the remark
the confusion that trailed reagan's comments echoed the discrepancies that have emerged from many of the previous 41 news conferences the president has held during his seven years in the white house
at a june 11, 1987, news conference at the economic summit in venice, italy, the president sent his aides scrambling when he stated that he believed the dollar's value could decline further ``within reason.''
the administration was trying to halt the dollar's slide at the time, and fitzwater quickly issued a statement denying that the president wanted the decline to resume
he wants stability in the dollar,'' the spokesman said
on nov. 19, 1986, as the iran-contra affair was emerging, reagan told reporters that the united states ``had nothing to do with'' and ``did not condone'' arms shipments to iran by third countries
soon after the news conference ended, white house officials issued a statement conceding that a third country was involved in the secret shipments. the country turned out to be israel
at that same news conference, reagan said the tow anti-tank missiles included in the shipments to iran are ``shoulder-carried,'' when in fact they are much too large for that and are normally fired from a jeep
the president ignited a controversy june 11, 1986, when he said that if any americans were starving or undernourished, it was from ignorance about where to get free food, not from lack of sustenance
i find it difficult also to find any cases of starvation and undernourishment,'' he said
democrats criticized the president for terminating a program that publicized the food stamp program. rep. leon panetta, d-calif., said there were hungry people ``a few blocks from the white house.''
on feb. 18, 1982, reagan offered an account of the early years of u.s. involvement in vietnam. he stated that president kennedy authorized the sending of the first combat troops into vietnam, which did not occur until president johnson's administration
reagan also said north vietnamese leader ho chi minh had ``refused to participate'' in national elections after the french withdrawal from indochina. in fact, the south vietnamese government refused to hold preparatory talks with north vietnam, and documents showed that american diplomats urged the south vietnamese to insist on conditions the communists would not accept
the elections were never held
the associated press and other news organizations double-checked comments the president made at a jan. 19, 1982, news conference, and challenged six statements
reagan said 1 million more people were at work than in 1980. in fact, there were 94,000 fewer people with jobs in december 1981 than in december 1980, according to official government figures, and the white house later conceded that reagan ``misspoke.''
among other statements at that news conference, reagan said:
_ the steel industry had commenced a multi-billion dollar expansion program. industry officials said there were plans to modernize some factories, but that there were few proposals to expand
_ a pima county, ariz., program for feeding the elderly saved $50,000 by eliminating administrative help and doubled the people they served. the program director denied that
_ interest rates had dropped during his year in office. although some short-term rates had fallen, rates on long-term government bonds _ the best indicator of long-term rates _ and home mortgage rates had increased
demonstrators stoned the israeli embassy and broke several windows saturday during a protest against the crackdown on palestinians in israeli-occupied territories
about 200 greek cyriots broke through a police cordon and barbed wire barricades blocking access to the embassy building in a narrow suburban street
they stood outside the tall wire fence of the embassy compound and burned an israeli flag, threw stones at the building and chanted anti-israeli slogans
police reinforcements managed to drive the protesters away within a few minutes
we have had many windows broken, but nobody has been hurt,'' said an israeli diplomat at the embassy who answered a telephone call from the associated press. he declined to give his name
the demonstrators marched to the embassy after staging a protest rally in the capital's main square
one of the placards carried by the demonstrators said ``dachau lives again,'' a reference to one of the nazi death camps where millions of jews were incinerated during world war ii
other placards said ``palestinians have a right to self-determination,'' and ``israel, stop killing palestinians.''
the demonstration coincided with the opening session in nicosia of a hearing by the international secretariat of the inquiry commission into israeli crimes against the lebanese and palestinian people
the inquiry, which held its session at a nicosia hotel, includes european judicial and legal personalities sympathetic to the palestinian cause. it is headed by british lawyer john platts-mills
nasreen bsisso, a palestinian woman expelled from israel two years ago, told the inquiry that 138 palestinians have been killed and more than 2,000 have been seriously wounded since the unrest in the west bank and gaza strip started on dec. 8
u.n. figures place the number of dead at 69
jabril mahmoud rujub, 35, one of four palestinians expelled from israel last month, said he had spent 17 years in israeli prisons and gave extensive testimony to the inquiry about prison conditions
since there is no death penalty in israel, they try to kill the prisoners through torture and illtreatment,'' he said
yasser arafat, chairman of the palestine liberation organization, said in a message to the inquiry that its work ``will unmask and expose israeli crimes and barbaric practices.''
he said israel ``would not be able to carry out these barbaric crimes without the total support and unlimited aid it receives from the american administration.''
five people accused of planting bombs in iran were sentenced to death and executed saturday, tehran television reported
the television did not identify the five nor say whether they were among 30 people arrested earlier for allegedly planting bombs in tehran and western iran in recent weeks
the television broadcast, monitored in nicosia, said: ``the islamic revolutionary court announced that five agents related to the global arrogance who were accused of planting bombs that caused some death and injuries, were sentenced to death and executed saturday evening.''
it gave no other details. but iranian leaders and the news media usually refer to the superpowers as global arrogance
the arrest of the 30 people was disclosed earlier saturday by an iranian security chief in a statement broadcast on tehran radio
sarajeddin mussavi, commander of the islamic revolutionary committees, had said the alleged bombers were ``paid iraqi agents'' who will shortly be handed over to revolutionary courts for trial
most saboteurs are branded iraqi agents by iranian authorities. death is the usual penalty for those convicted of bombings and several have been executed by firing squad in recent months
mussavi said in an interview on the state-run radio that the alleged saboteurs had confessed to two bombings in tehran earlier this month
the last reported bombing in the iranian capital was feb. 18, when a car bomb exploded on the mohammed ali jenah expressway, wounding two people. another 10 people were reported wounded three days earlier in a bomb blast in north tehran's martyr bahonar street
iran and iraq have been at war since september 1980
brothers david and jon fone made their double wedding a family affair saturday when they married janette browne and her daughter, rachael
david fone, 23, married janette, 37, making him rachael's stepfather as well as her brother-in-law
jon fone, 18, married rachael, also 18. he now has janette as both a sister-in-law and a mother-in-law
david also becomes the stepfather to janette's five children by her first marriage, as well as grandfather and uncle to jon and rachel's 1-year-old daughter, nikita
david has two children by his first marriage
confusing?
not at all, says rachael
we're just one big happy family,'' she said.``at first it was a bit difficult. it was a bit embarrassing talking about the things you talk to mothers about, just in case she told david and it got back to jon. but after a few weeks it was great.''
the two couples started double-dating every week in torquay, southwest england, ``and we became more like sisters than mother and daughter,'' rachael said
janette, whose other children range in age from 4 to 13, said that dating david brought her closer to rachael
david said: ``you could see janette getting happier and happier every time we all went out together. one minute she was a mother of six and never went out anywhere. the next she's going out drinking and dancing with her teen-age daughter. it actually made her younger.'' spelling of institution. subs 9th graf, `matta, 43 ...,' with 1 graf to clarify that constitution is honduras'. subs 11th graf pvs, `political violence ...,' with 1 graf to drop word `phenomena,' and replace it with `two.' ^an ap extra</note>
drugs and political murders have perturbed the calm that had made this central american country an island of peace surrounded by guerrilla wars
life in this bustling capital of narrow streets and low pastel painted buildings remains tranquil compared to the daily tribulations of neighboring el salvador, nicaragua and guatemala. civil wars in those countries have killed more than 100,000 people in the past decade
because of honduras' relative stability and its close alliance with washington, u.s. officials were particularly concerned about the increased use in recent years of this country as a transshipment point for american-bound colombian cocaine
after several seizures of honduran-routed drugs in the previous two years, federal agents in florida last november confiscated four tons of cocaine hidden in a shipment of honduran wooden doors. worth more than $1 billion, it was the biggest bust in u.s. history
elliott abrams, assistant secretary of state for inter-american affairs, said in an interview broadcast here last week that ``without doubt'' some honduran military officers and government officials are involved in the drug trade
honduras returned to civilian rule in 1982 after a decade of military regimes. but the civilian administration of president jose azcona hoyo remains weak and dependent on the support of the armed forces
abrams told the radio station hrn: ``as in any army, there are individuals, people in the honduran army who are not honest and perhaps have been bought by matta and the drug traffickers. but that does not mean that the army as an institution is dishonest, because that's not true.''
he referred to juan ramon matta, a honduran who escaped from a colombian jail two years ago and returned here, where he lives in an opulent home with a bodyguard of 10 former honduran paratroopers. matta, allegedly a major figure of colombia's infamous medellin cartel, was jailed for a few months upon his arrival back home. local media said he bought his way out
matta, 43, is wanted in the united states in connection with the slaying in 1985 in mexico of u.s drug agent enrique camarena salazar. the honduran constitution prohibits extradition of native hondurans
abrams said the honduran military asked a year ago for more u.s. help in combating the proliferating traffickers. the u.s. drug enforcement administration, after an absence of seven years, has re-established an office here
political violence has increased along with the rise in drug trafficking, though there is no apparent connection between the two. amnesty international, the london-based rights organization, reported wednesday that death squads linked to the honduran military are waging a new campaign of torture and terror against government opponents
the independent human rights committee, known as codeh, blames three slayings last month on officially sanctioned or tolerated death squads
codeh vice president anibal puerto, in an interview with the associated press, said there were 277 ``extra-judicial executions'' last year. he said that because of lack of investigative means, the committee could not say how many it blames on death squads. but he said most of the victims presented signs of torture, and that many had been active in labor, rights, student or campesino (peasant) organizations
miguel angel pavon, head of the codeh branch in the northwestern city of san pedro sula, and professor moises landaverde were talking in a car in front of the latter's home on jan. 14 when a motorcycle carrying two people pulled alongside. the motorcycle passenger shot each man twice and the bike sped away
a few days earlier, gunmen killed former army sergeant jose isias vilorio, reportedly an ex-member of a death squad. vilorio had been scheduled to testify in costa rica before the inter-american court on human rights hearing a case alleging that death squads operated with official backing here in the early 1980s. a banner of a tiny leftist guerrilla faction was left by the body, and the government says leftists killed him
rights activists, citing the importance of vilorio's imminent testimony, contend he was killed by a death squad and that the flag was a crude attempt to divert blame
amnesty said other abuses, including arbitrary arrests and torture of prisoners are widespread in honduras
consulted by the ap, foreign ministry spokesman eugenio castro termed the amnesty report ``somewhat pulled out of thin air ... when there is no proof.'' he said the murders of last month were being investigated
but puerto said the investigation is getting nowhere
carlos montoya, president of the national congress, called during a press conference wednesday for the abolition of death squads
we trust that the armed forces will make known the names of those responsible for so many crimes,'' he said
authorities here reacted with indignation to the reports of officers' involvement in the drug trade. armed forces spokesman col. manual suarez benavides told the ap flatly, ``there are no military officers involved in narcotics traffic.''
the foreign ministry demanded that the u.s. embassy provide the names of honduran officers allegedly involved in drug dealing
on feb. 19, ambassador everett briggs wrote to foreign minister carlos lopez contreras saying the u.s. government has no list of honduran officers involved in drug trafficking. briggs said that if and when u.s. authorities obtain such information, it will be passed on to honduran oficials
when explorer bartholomew gosnold visited this small island off the massachusetts coast in 1602, he named it in honor of his daughter and the grapevines he found growing abundantly on its open land
today undeveloped land on martha's vineyard is increasingly scarce, and an overwhelming majority of the resort island's residents are demanding a halt to rapid growth they say is stripping the island of its character and straining its police, hospital and other services
at one time, it was natural graces that brought people to the island. now that is being supplemented by the fact that this is also attractive as a straight out-and-out investment,'' said walter renear, chairman of the tisbury town planning board
a poll commissioned by the weekly vineyard gazette newspaper found that 95 percent of adult residents in the island's six towns believe development is creating serious problems. seventy-five percent of permanent residents and 82 percent of seasonal residents called the problems very serious
the poll of 800 people by louis harris and associates inc. also found a widespread distrust of developers and a belief among 82 percent of the respondents that the island will become unlivable if growth is not curtailed
the year-round population on the island is now 12,690, more than double what it was 15 years ago. the summer population swells to over 90,000 with visitors in search of the island's breezes, beaches, fishing and sailing
most respondents favored a broad, one-year moratorium on residential and commercial development and the adoption of island-wide planning goals to restrict the number and location of new developments
but renear said speculation has helped force land values up and a moratorium would likely draw lawsuits from developers and property owners
it's the investment aspect of the land that is fueling this development,'' renear said
many owners buy land and get permission to build. the permits become part of the land value, and an investor need not build to make money
for years there have been arguments about island development, but vineyard officials say the poll is the first indication that there is near unanimity among residents about taking action to halt growth
i think it's a mandate,'' said james l. young, a member of the martha's vineyard commission, the island's regional planning agency. ``i think it's time to take a good hard look at our officeholders to see if they are indeed reflecting the views of their constituents.''
the number of building permits for new residential units on martha's vineyard jumped 302 percent from 1976, when 158 permits were issued, to 1986, when 636 new units were approved island-wide. another 517 units were approved in 1987, according to vineyard commission records
open land has become a commodity on the 100-square-mile island, a summer haven seven miles off the cape cod shore. land records show that scores of undeveloped lots have changed hands several times in recent years, each time at a higher price, without being developed
ironically, an agency created in may 1986 to help preserve some of the island's scenic and historic land is benefiting from the land deals
the martha's vineyard land bank receives proceeds of a 2 percent tax on all vineyard real estate transactions, and has collected nearly $7.4 million, its share of the $370 million in real estate deals on the island in the past 21 months
the land bank has used the money to buy outright or purchase development rights to 290 acres and is in the process of obtaining 183 more acres
efforts of the land bank and a handful of other island preservation groups won't be enough to stop rapid development, said brendan o'neill, executive director of the martha's vineyard conservation society
a one-year building moratorium, he said, ``will buy us time to forge an island-wide consensus about what we want to be as a community.''
but renear, 62, a lifelong vineyard resident, said a moratorium is more likely to land island officials in court
this is a solvable problem and with time we can get a solution,'' renear said. ``there's room for growth. i'm not saying that we have all the answers. but a moratorium is too simplistic. property owners will have you in court in two minutes.''
john magnuson, 32, who works for his father, a longtime builder on the island, said better planning is the answer to the island's growth problem
i don't think a moratorium is the answer,'' he said. ``i do think it has to slow down somewhat, but there are some areas in the back woods where growth is just fine.''
paul swallow threw up his hands and whooped when he crossed the finish line in his first ski race since he broke his neck eight years ago
a paraplegic with only limited use of his arms, swallow was back on the snow again with more than 100 other disabled veterans
sitting in a plastic ski sled made for disabled skiers and grinning widely in the bright sunshine at powderhorn ski area, swallow talked of ``paying for this in more ways than one'' but said he thinks ``everybody should get in one of these things.''
swallow, 32, from los angeles, tore some skin from his left elbow during his slalom run when his sled nearly overturned, but all he cared about was getting out of his wheelchair and going skiing
you get a lot of satisfaction out of this and it proves a lot to people,'' said swallow, a volunteer juvenile probation counselor. ``everybody can do something and there's no limit.''
encouraging disabled veterans to exchange their wheelchairs for ski sleds and pushing them beyond their limits is the idea behind the national winter sports clinic for veterans
only in its second year, the clinic drew 105 disabled veterans to powderhorn for a week of skiing, snowmobiling, wheelchair basketball and sightseeing
can you imagine if you were confined to a wheelchair the pleasure and thrill of being able to ski and going 40 mph?'' asked sandy trombetta, the veterans administration's chief recreational therapist in grand junction
trombetta said most of the participants ``never even dreamed of skiing before, and most have never pushed beyond their limitations before.''
the skiers ranged from near quadriplegics with only limited use of their hands to amputees and blind skier urban miyares of san diego
miyares skied with the help of sue haak of the denver va office, who is a ski instructor for the handicapped at the winter park area. she skiied next to miyares, calling out to him when to turn, slow down or speed up
amputees ski on a single ski with tiny skis fitted to the bottoms of their ski poles like outriggers
paraplegics with good upper body coordination and balance use a high-tech monoski, a plastic or metal shell perched on a single ski. they also use outriggers, and accomplished monoskiers blast through the same moguls and powder as expert able-bodied skiers
most who have lost the use of their legs and have suffered some injury higher toward the shoulders use the plastic sleds. they drag metal spikes in the snow to turn and the less experienced are tethered to a skier who follows to keep their speed under control
the plastic sleds officially are called ``sit-skis'' and cost between $1,400 and $2,200 each
the veterans came from 20 states, either paying their own way to grand junction or getting financial help from their local vfw or american legion groups. trombetta said it costs the va and several corporate sponsors $50,000 to stage the week-long clinic
a second-year participant, ray hill of detroit, says he can't get enough of skiing
from the moment i took my first run last year i wanted to come back,'' said hill, 45, who was left in a wheelchair by a hit-and-run driver
hill said only the will and the mind stand in the way of the disabled
you have to pick yourself up and do it again, and again, until you master it,'' he said. ``and you can always look around here and see somebody worse off than you are, doing the same thing
so if he's doing it, i can do it.''
the government on saturday approved the renewal of a defense cooperation pact with the united states that was signed by the two countries almost a year ago, the foreign ministry announced
the pact gives the united states access to a dozen military installations in turkey, including two electronic listening posts that monitor soviet military activities and nuclear tests
premier turgut ozal's cabinet, disappointed by the position of the u.s. congress on military aid to turkey, had been withholding approval of the agreement that will be in force until 1990
turkey contends it needs $1.2 billion in u.s. assistance a year to modernize its armed forces
last year, the reagan administration asked congress to give turkey $914 million in aid. the congress, citing budget constraints, cut the request to $570 million and reduced the amount to $490 million for the current fiscal year
the announcement said that in ratifying the agreement, the turkish government considered other aspects of the relationship with the united states besides defense cooperation. it did not elaborate
the announcement also noted that the united states, in the agreement, had pledged to make it easier for turkey to repay its foreign military sales credits and also pledged to improve trade relations between the two countries
it was not made public what kind of negotiations took place before the turkish government's decision to approve the agreement
the 1980 agreement expired in 1985, and it was extended until 1990 last march following intense negotiations
legally, the agreement goes into force after confirmation by the cabinet and publication in the official gazette
the announcement said the gazette will publish the government's decision on sunday
the united states lodged a protest with the government for failing to protect a u.s. navy supply ship during an anti-american demonstration on the island of crete, an embassy spokesman said saturday
four islanders and two american sailors from the supply ship saturn were injured during wednesday's dockside demostration at heraklion harbor. the ship, which sailed thursday, called at the port to pick up fresh fruit and vegetables for the 6th fleet in the mediterranean
the u.s. embassy has issued a protest over the lack of security afforded during the incident,'' said the embassy spokesman, who spoke on condition of anonymity
the spokesman said the protest was delivered to the greek foreign ministry friday by embassy charge d'affairs ed cohen
more than 1,000 demonstrators gathered at the port, sprayed ``americans go home'' in red paint on the ship's side, cut and set fire to a mooring cable, and hurled rocks, bottles and flares
demonstrators claimed that sailors aboard the saturn tossed the bottles, rocks and other objects back into the crowd. the protest was organized by a local peace group opposed to the american military presence on crete
the government is waiting ... for the heraklion port authority's report based on which a reply will be given,'' said government spokesman yiannis roubatis
he said that if the findings cast blame ``on the behavior of the american ship's crew during the demonstration, a protest will be made to the american side.''
there is an american air force base near heraklion as well as air and naval facilities for american warships at souda bay in western crete
an aeroflot airliner carrying 51 people crashed on a siberian runway and burst into flames as it finished the final leg of a cross-country trip, killing and injuring passengers, tass said
the soviet news agency quoted a local aviation official as saying the tu-134 ``fell within the airfield boundaries, broke up and caught fire'' at the city of surgut, an oil and petrochemical center on the ob river about 1,400 miles east of moscow
unfortunately, there were victims,'' tass said. an earlier report said: ``there is loss of life.''
tass said the tu-134 was carrying 45 passengers and six crew members, but did not specify how many people were killed and injured in the crash, which occurred shortly after 4 a.m. moscow time
it was the third reported fatal crash of a commercial jetliner in the soviet union this year
fire engines and rescue vehicles were at the crash site within two minutes and were giving first aid to the injured, tass quoted the local deputy chief of civil aviation, yuri evreinov, as saying
tass said 15 emergency vehicles were sent to the surgut airport to evacuate victims, who were taken to two hospitals
eight doctors also were brought in from the regional center of tyumen, tass said
tass said the 1,600-mile flight originated in the byelorussian capital of minsk, with stops in the volga basin industrial city of kuibyshev and tyumen, a siberian oil city, before a final scheduled landing in surgut, a city of more than 150,000 people located in western siberia
the tu-134 is a twin-turbofan plane designed for short- and medium-range flights, and can carry from 80 to 96 passengers, according to jane's all the world's aircraft
the causes of the crash are being investigated by a special government commission, tass said
the weather this morning was good, communications with the plane solid,'' evreinov was quoted as saying. ``but then the unforeseen happened.''
tass said the soviet government had conveyed its condolences to people injured in the crash and to the families of the dead
in the past, the soviet union rarely reported its plane crashes, but deputy civil aviation minister ivan vasin told the associated press last fall that aeroflot would begin publishing reports on its accidents this year
the policy change was clearly linked to soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev's campaign for ``glasnost,'' or openness, on some social issues
on jan. 18, a tu-154 passenger jet crashed on landing at the caspian sea port of krasnovodsk, and soviet media said 11 people were killed and 12 hurt
those media reports, which were issued on the day of the crash, marked the first time the state-run soviet press and broadcast media reported on a domestic air accident the same day it occurred
on jan. 25, an aeroflot yakovlev-40 tri-turbofan passenger plane crashed near the airport in the siberian city of nizhnevartovsk. tass at the time said the crash caused ``loss of life,'' but did not say how many people had died
vladimir y. potemkin, deputy chief of flight services at the ministry of civil aviation, told a news conference earlier this month that a total of 47 people were killed last year in accidents involving aeroflot planes
the state department formally protested to the nicaraguan government saturday after two u.s. diplomats were threatened and one was roughed up by a crowd of policemen participating in a parade in managua, the department said
nicaraguan ambassador carlos tunnermann was summoned to the state department to receive ``a stiff formal protest'' about the incident, which occurred on friday, according to a department statement
the statement said two american diplomats were watching a rally commemorating the 10th anniversary of the nicaraguan revolution, when they were noticed by members of the ministry of the interior's uniformed police force
after a high-ranking ministry official identified the two diplomats as americans, five uniformed policemen grabbed one of the u.s. diplomats, pinned his arms and hoisted him in the air, the department said
other officers intervened to stop the five, but a crowd of more than 100 other ministry officers surrounded the americans and screamed at them for five minutes, according to the department. it said the diplomats then departed. seoul-dated last item</note>
park yong-shik can shed his toupee now that chun doo-hwan is no longer president
the popular television actor says he had to wear a hairpiece during chun's seven-year term because he bears a striking resemblance to the balding former president, who was succeeded thursday by roh tae-woo
park, 44, said he was banned from appearing on state-run television in 1981 without explanation. park said he learned later it was because he resembled the chun
authorities in 1982 accepted his proposal to wear a toupee and grow a beard to change his appearance, he said. however, he lost important roles in soap operas and other programs and only received minor parts in historical dramas
i hope such a comic thing will never happen again,'' park said friday
china's giant pandas, in danger of extinction since 1983 when their dietary staple of bamboo began to wither, are over the worst of the crisis, china's top forestry official was quoted saturday as saying
forestry minister gao dezhan said new bamboo has started to grow in the pandas' three native provinces of sichuan, shaanxi and gansu, the official people's daily reported
but he said the threat to the pandas is not over because the animals don't generally like young bamboo
gao called on the leaders of the three provinces to continue to guard the pandas' safety. the officials met friday in beijing to discuss the situation
at the meeting, gao called for strict punishment, including the death penalty, for hunters who capture or kill giant pandas
china's panda population, now just under 1,000, has been declining for the past five years in part because a rare flowering cycle of the arrow bamboo caused more than 275,000 tons of the plant to wither and die
eleven men were sentenced earlier this week to prison terms ranging from three years to life for killing two giant pandas in sichuan province
the governing liberal democratic party will not accept a united states request that japan lift restrictions on imported beef and oranges within two years, a party official was quoted as saying saturday
michio watanabe, chairman of the party's policy affairs research council, told a news conference that japan instead would offer the united states an increase in import quotas, kyodo news service reported
there are people in the united states saying many things, but we don't accept them,'' it quoted him as saying in reference to u.s. demands that imports of oranges and beef be liberalized
party officials were not immediately available saturday to confirm the report
on thursday, a senior economic planning agency official predicted that japanese import restrictions on beef would be lifted within two years, with a lifting of restrictions on citrus fruit coming even sooner
japan has been under pressure from the united states and australia to open its beef and citrus markets, with an agreement governing imports of the two products due to expire in march
but the ministry of agriculture, forestry and fisheries has opposed liberalization, arguing that it is unfair to single out japan and pointing to restrictions that the united states maintains on beef imports
japanese officials have said the quotas are neccessary to protect japanese farmers
the current agreement between japan and the united states called for japan to increase its beef import quotas from 141,000 tons a year in 1984 to 177,000 tons by 1988, and its orange quotas by 1,100 tons each year until 1988. the level was 82,000 tons in 1984, when the agreement was signed
whether belching with smoke or strangely silent, the mills of this once-mighty steel valley have been a magnet for visiting notables over the decades
britain's prince edward, later king edward vii, toured the area's mills and factories during his visit to the united states in 1860
prince don gelasio caetani, ambassador from italy to the united states, visited the mills of nearby homestead in 1923. sweden's prince bertil followed in 1938
the bold energy and ceaseless inventive imagination displayed by your industry seems to me to be the surest token of success for the future,'' prince bertil said
even soviet leader nikita khrushchev, traveling through the united states prior to a 1959 summit meeting with president eisenhower, toured a factory with his wife
krushchev startled everyone when he gave his watch to a steelworker who had offered him a cigar
constantine, crown prince of greece, saw a mill during a brief visit to pittsburgh in 1959. king bhumibol adulyadej of thailand and his queen toured a plant the following year
the latest member of royalty to venture into the monongahela river valley just south of pittsburgh will be britain's prince charles. he doesn't plan to tour any steel mills, but will travel past them on his way to a meeting with urban experts in homestead on friday
although the steel industry has declined precipitously, homestead acting mayor joseph little, like most everybody else around this town of 5,000, is proud of the crowd his valley has drawn
homestead was a great town. it still is a great town,'' little said. ``we've just got to get something going for us. there won't be any harm done as far as prince charles coming in.''
nebraska's first man, bill orr, serenaded his wife, gov. kay orr, and conagra inc. chairman mike harper imitated gen. george patton at the annual omaha press club gridiron show
harper stood before a huge american flag and poked fun at taxpayers for helping foot the bill for an economic development package that conagra said was needed to keep the giant food processing company from leaving the state
harper wore an army helmet emblazoned with the conagra logo and sang a takeoff on ``america the beautiful.''
stand tall,'' harper said. ``this country was built by people who don't like to pay taxes
he said nebraska's tax structure allows him to ``spend more on the worthwhile things in life _ computers and company jets.''
orr, joined on-stage by his wife, sang in a love song that he would stay with his wife if she decided to seek a second term
about 1,500 people attended the friday's show, a musical review poking fun at news events of the past year
the show, a benefit for journalism scholarships, was dedicated to the late u.s. sen. edward zorinsky, who collapsed and died after performing at last year's show
a 2-year-old girl mauled by a neighbor's pet lioness was in stable condition saturday, hospital officials said
the attack occurred when nicole stroops, daughter of stanley and paula stroops of odessa, apparently strayed into the neighbor's yard and put her arm in the animal's cage, according to sheriff's reports and the animal's owner
the lion's owner, india tucker, said her husband, billie, shot the 3-year-old lion dead after the attack friday evening
nicole was taken to medical center hospital where she was treated for multiple bites on her left arm and shoulder. the child also suffered superficial scratches on her face in the attack, said a nursing supervisor who declined to give her name
sheriff's officials said the case was under investigation and the odessa-ector county animal shelter will test the lioness for rabies
porn star illona staller, a member of the italian parliament and candidate for the european parliament, was detained for 16 hours saturday by police who accused her of indecent exposure
ms. staller, known as cicciolina, decided to cancel another performance in brussels and leave belgium, said an organizer of her tour. he quoted her as saying, ``i leave free but disapointed.''
the nude performer was arrested early saturday at the end of her first night club appearance in brussels after leaving the stage, a police spokesman said. the spokesman, not identified in line with police policy, said cicciolina had overstepped the bounds of decency, according to belgian standards, and that she had been warned in advance
she was taken to brussels police headquarters and was released at 6 p.m
her spokesman said she had decided to interrupt her tour, which included one more appearance in brussels saturday night and shows in other cities, and to return to italy
she also was making the tour to promote her candidacy for the european parliament in the 1989 election and to speak out in favor of sexual freedom, said her spokesman, who talked with reporters on the condition he not be identified
she was elected to the italian parliament last year as a representative for the radical party. marco pannella, former chairman of the party, said in a statement released here that the police acted against her because she is a member of the italian parliament
he said her arrest was ``obscene, not her show which i did not see and in which i am not interested.'' he added he would protest laws and regulations ``which hurt common sense and human rights.''
the police spokesman declined to say if cicciolina had been asked to leave the country or if charges might be filed
a spokesman for the german airline lufthansa said ms. staller left brussels on a flight to frankfurt at 6:35 p.m
reports from armenia's capital indicated the city was calm saturday, but a u.s.-based group claimed some armenians remained camped in a tent city in the region where several days of mass protests had been held
a hotel manager in yerevan, reached by telephone from moscow, said, ``everything is quiet'' in the capital city where at least five days of street protests brought an appeal by soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev for restraint
a telephone operator in yerevan also said the demonstrations had ended. efforts to contact armenian nationalist leaders were unsuccessful. both the operator and the hotel manager spoke on condition they not be identified
there was no direct word on the situation in nagorno-karabakh, the autonomous region where members of the ethnic armenian majority began the demonstrations to protest the soviet communist party's rejection of a proposal to give the region back to armenia. it has been designated part of the neighboring republic of azerbaidzhan since 1923
most telephone calls to yerevan have been cut off since the demonstrations began, and foreign reporters have been prevented from traveling to the small republic on the turkish border
gorbachev's appeal, read on armenian and azerbaidzhanian radio and television friday by a central committee official, was accompanied by a pledge from local party officials to ask the moscow-based communist party central committee to reconsider the territorial issue
reports from armenia said that after the appeal, the demonstrators in yerevan, said by some to have numbered up to 1 million, began to disperse
a washington-based group calling itself the armenian national committee of america quoted telephone reports from the region as saying nagorno-karabakh's main city, stepanakert, had been turned into a tent city by armenian villagers from the countryside
the group claimed azerbaidzhanis had killed 70 armenians in the region and that soviet troops were stationed around stepanakert to prevent further ethnic violence. there have been other reports of deaths in the region, but they have not been confirmed
relations between azerbaidzhan, a predominantly moslem republic, and mainly christian armenia have been tense for some time. last week, there were disturbances in the contested autonomous region, where the population is three-quarters armenian, and they spread to yerevan
the protests brought concessions from regional communist party leaders. they named a 56-year-old armenian, genrikh pogosyan, to head the party in nagorno-karabakh, replacing boris kevorkov who also is an ethnic armenian but apparently less popular than pogosyan
showers were scattered across parts of the northeast on saturday, while rain fell in parts of the south and california
snow showers extended from southern new york state and northern new jersey across pennsylvania, northeastern west virginia, northeastern ohio and eastern lower michigan
two inches of snow had fallen since friday at the allentown-bethleham-easton airport in eastern pennsylvania, and there were reports of up to 4 inches of snow in the poconos of northeastern pennsylvania, the national weather service said. syracuse, n.y., got 2 inches in the six hours up to 1 p.m. est
snow mixed with rain fell across delaware
rain fell in west-central and northern california and north-central arizona
rain amounts in northern california were light, but the weather service said that had it not rained through monday, the san francisco bay area would have tied a no-rain february record that was set in 1864
it's so dry now that even when we get rain it will take a few days to get soaked in so we can get some runoff,'' said gayle montgomery, spokesman for the east bay municipal utility district. he said water rationing was not out of the question if the dry conditions continue
rain also fell in central mississippi and eastern virginia
temperatures around the nation at 2 p.m. est ranged from 25 degrees at limestone, maine, to 79 at both kingsville and mcallen, texas. the early-morning low for the day was 14 degrees below zero at gunnison, colo
for sunday, scattered snow was forecast across upper michigan. showers were forecast in northern and central california, into the tahoe basin of western nevada
high in the 20s were predicted in upper michigan and northern through west-central new england; in the 30s and 40s from the remainder of new england and the great lakes across the ohio valley, the atlantic states through virginia, the upper mississippi valley, much of the dakotas, and northeastern montana; in the 70s to low 80s in southern florida, much of louisiana, from southern kansas across much of texas, and in southern california and the desert southwest; and in the 50s and 60s in most of the rest of the nation
a memo central to independent counsel james c. mckay's investigation of attorney general edwin meese iii has also provided an intriguing new lead for iran-contra prosecutor lawrence e. walsh
the sept. 25, 1985 memo was written to meese by his old friend, e. robert wallach, about a proposed middle east oil pipeline. wallach accurately describes israel's help in arranging the u.s. arms-for-hostages swap with iran just 10 days earlier. and that swap is central to walsh's probe
the memo provides the first link between the pipeline affair and the iran-contra episode, and may provide clues to the motivations and knowledge of key players in each. and it is likely to provoke yet another appearance by meese before walsh's grand jury
in an operation then known only to a handful of high u.s. officials, israel brokered the sale of 504 tow missiles to iran for $6 million and provided a transfer point for arms shipments on aug. 20 and sept. 15 _ the day the rev. benjamin weir was released by his pro-iranian captors in lebanon
mckay, who is investigating meese's involvement in wallach's efforts to win u.s. government financial support for the pipeline project, recently turned the memo over to walsh, the independent counsel investigating the iran-contra affair, according to government sources who spoke on condition of anonymity
in the ``for your eyes, only'' memo, wallach reported to meese that bruce rappaport, a swiss businessman who was promoting the $1 billion pipeline project, ``indicates that (then-israeli premier shimon) peres emphatically indicated that the release of weir was a result of the efforts of the state of israel and no one else.''
he indicated that they would also arrange for the release of the remaining six (american hostages). there is a feeling that the u.s. `owes' and that the accomplishment of this project, as outlined in my memo, is appropriate,'' wallach wrote
wallach, a san francisco lawyer, goes on to say the israelis are ``a bit frustrated as to why the u.s.g. (u.s. government) has not more directly facilitated the accomplishment'' of the pipeline project. rappaport was seeking u.s. support to ensure that israel would not attack the pipeline, which was to have run from iraq through jordan near the israeli border to the gulf of aqaba
mckay is trying to determine whether a reference in the memo to the proposed payment of $650-$700 million in pipeline proceeds over 10 years to israel and peres' labor party should have alerted meese to a possible violation of a law that prohibits bribery of foreign officials
meese has said he does not remember reading in detail the section dealing with the proposed payments, which immediately precedes the reference to israel's role in obtaining weir's release
walsh is likely to question meese and wallach about whether there was any ``quid pro quo'' between israel's role in the arms-for-hostage deal and any u.s. government financial support for the pipeline _ which was never built
the september, 1985 memo's description of a key israeli role in the arms-for-hostage deal appears to undercut meese's congressional testimony last year that he did not learn of israel's involvement until november, 1986
walsh received a copy of wallach's memo just as he was preparing to put final touches on indictments likely to be returned in the coming weeks against key participants in the arms sale to iran and diversion of proceeds to the nicaraguan rebels. though walsh's staff is eager to pursue the new lead, no delay is expected in those indictments
charges are expected to be brought against former national security adviser john m. poindexter, his former aide, lt. col. oliver l. north, and two arms dealers, retired air force maj. gen. richard v. secord and albert hakim
a pro-iranian kurdish group released three italian engineers saturday who were taken hostage in iraq last fall, to protest italian warships in the persian gulf, the foreign ministry reported
it said an italian doctor determined the three were in fair condition when they were turned over to italian diplomatic officials in baiji, iraq, about 125 miles north of baghdad
the foreign ministry said the three were released because of its ``intense and discreet'' efforts, but did not elaborate
iran and iraq have been at war since september 1980, and italy along with the united staters and several other countries have sent warships to the persian gulf to search for mines and defend their flagged oil tankers and other cargo vessels from attack. both iran and iraq have attacked neutral shipping in the gulf
state-run rai television said saturday that the former hostages, sergio cominetti, giuseppe carrara and robert diotallevi, were en route to baghdad
a group calling itself the iraqi kurdish national union had claimed responsibility last fall for the kidnappings
it said in a statement released in lebanon that its members took cominetti hostage in mid-september and kidnapped the other two in early october to protest ``italian aid to the iraqi regime and italian military presence'' in the gulf
the three worked for italian electrical engineering companies on projects in iraq. picking up at 12th graf pvs, `the house impeached...'. deletes last 3 grafs, now redundant.</note>
two days before the scheduled start of his senate impeachment trial, gov. evan mecham said he was preparing to ask a federal court to halt it, saying he feared his constitutional rights would be trampled in ``a lynch-mob atmosphere.''
as governor of this state i ask nothing more than is accorded to any garden variety criminal,'' the republican governor told reporters at a news conference
is this a star chamber or will we proceed under the time-tested constitutional mandate'' that guarantees due process, mecham said
mecham said he was preparing to ``seek federal redress on whatever level is appropriate.''
the senate is scheduled to begin his impeachment trial monday morning, and mecham said he and his two new attorneys were prepared to be there if no court ordered the trial halted beforehand
his attorney, thomas crowe, said he had not decided which federal court he would go to to seek a stay or a halt to the trial. the decision might not come until after the trial begins but would be made by wednesday at the latest, crowe said
the state supreme court refused friday to grant a temporary stay and said it would decide tuesday whether the impeachment trial should be delayed until after mecham's march 22 criminal trial on charges of concealing a $350,000 campaign loan. mecham also faces a may 17 recall election
mecham called the news conference friday night, and some legislators had speculated that he might resign saturday to avoid having to go through the publicity of a senate trial, then run in the recall election to regain his office
if convicted in the criminal trial, he would be unable to enter the runoff, but he would be able to compete if the trial were delayed or he won an acquittal
the governor told reporters that while a resignation might help him personally, it would have ``terrible effects'' on other people
my resignation would write a bad chapter in the history of arizona that would be giving in to the powers who have schemed and planned to put so much pressure on me that i would eventually resign,'' he said
mecham hired crowe and washington, d.c., attorney jerris leonard last week, leading to the surprise resignation of mecham attorney murray miller
miller said friday that leonard had admitted to him earlier in the week that he was not prepared to defend the governor monday and that to do so would be ``malpractice.''
however, mecham said saturday his attorneys would ``drink enough coffee'' and prepare through the weekend to be ready monday
mecham complained that senate attorney john lundin argued before the supreme court on friday that the senate did not have to grant the governor many of the same constitutional rights he would receive in criminal court
that there is a lynch-mob atmosphere in arizona is apparent,'' he said
some lawmakers questioned saturday whether any federal judge would be willing to grant a stay to block the senate trial
it defies my belief that there could be one, given the doctrine of separation of powers,'' said state sen. greg lunn, a republican who has opposed mecham. ``were there to be one, i presume we would have to make a decision whether we would comply or not.''
senate president carl kunasek, a republican, said saturday it would be up to the 30 senators to decide if they would abide by any federal court stay
we've got to get going,'' said senate minority leader alan stephens, a democrat. ``the people of arizona deserve a fair break and the fair break is that the trial moves forward.''
the house impeached mecham on feb. 5 on charges of concealing the $350,000 loan, misusing $80,000 from the governor's protocol fund by loaning it to his auto dealership, and trying to thwart an investigation of an alleged death threat
secretary of state rose mofford, a democrat, became acting governor when mecham was impeached and would take over as governor in the event of a resignation or conviction in either impeachment or criminal court
attorney general bob corbin has issued an opinion saying he believes that even if mecham resigned or were convicted, the recall election would have to be held and mrs. mofford would be subject to removal from office. because of the way the constitution is written, a recall is aimed at the office, not the officeholder, corbin said
however, stephens said that if mrs. mofford became governor before the recall vote, he expected a court to be asked to decide if a recall vote was necessary. ...'' new grafs 32-34 with candidate comments, ``after the ... for taxes.'' deletes last four grafs to tighten</note>
a newly combative michael dukakis challenged richard gephardt repeatedly in campaign debate saturday to defend his vote for the 1981 reaganomics tax cut, and said albert gore ``has never run a government.''
gephardt said ``you bet'' he was proud to slash taxes on average americans and retorted that dukakis had raised taxes repeatedly in massachusetts
gore said dukakis has no foreign policy experience. ``we've seen the consequences in the last seven years of having the president who needed on the job training in foreign policy,'' he said, referring to the iran-contra affair
the sharp exchanges highlighted the political stakes involved in the campaign debate 10 days before the critical round of southern and border state presidential primaries _ in the very hall where democrats will gather this summer to select their nominee for the white house in 1988
dukakis and former sen. gary hart of colorado also criticized gephardt's trade legislation, the massachusetts governor declaring that it was dead in congress
i don't know that. where did you hear that?'' said gephardt
it's burial has been postponed until after super tuesday in deference to the next of kin,'' responded dukakis
the massachusetts governor, hoping to win enough southern votes to complement his primary victories in new england and the midwest, also sought to pre-empt jesse jackson's anti-drug crusade. ``as president i hope i can organize a national alliance against drugs'' with the help of governors, he said
the debate blended good humor, earnest politicking and attacks on the reagan administration as well as the sharp exchanges
jackson, bidding to expand his base beyond his natural black constiuency, said, ``i'm a proud son of the south.'' and, as he has before, he sought to play peacemaker. ``my fear is that in this ... debate, we'll be kind of like a cross-eyed archer shooting arrows past the people,'' he said after dukakis and gephardt clashed
gore, a tennessee senator hoping to jump-start his campaign in his native region after poor performances in earlier contests, made favorable references to former president carter and georgia sen. sam nunn as he stressed his southern credentials. ``i served my country in vietnam. i've run a farm,'' he said
hart, who announced earlier in the day he would stay in the race at least through super tuesday even though his chances of winning the nomination were remote, chided gore for voting for the mx missile and jabbed gephardt for his vote on the tax bill
sen. paul simon of illinois, who has virtually stopped campaigning in the southern states, assailed gephardt as well for voting in favor of the 1981 tax bill and the 1986 tax overhaul bill, which he said was a ``monster.''
overall, the debate demonstrated a highly combative side to dukakis' campaign personality that he had previously kept under wraps
the governor has been attacked in recent weeks by gore and gephardt. rather than responding sharply he has issued a series of increasingly stern warnings that he would fight back if provoked again
this time, he went after his rivals first
you proud of that? i want to know,'' dukakis said as he pressed gephardt on his vote in favor of the 1981 tax cut bill
i'm proud to cut taxes for the average american,'' gephardt responded as dukakis repeatedly pressed him
the subject turned to dukakis' performance as governor of massachusetts
i've cut taxes five times in the last four years,'' he said
said gephardt, ``but you've raised taxes about 10 times.''
shot back dukakis, ``no, i haven't.''
the exchange seemed to be over, when dukakis said, ``let the record show that congressman gephardt apologized all over iowa for that vote before he came down south.''
gephardt, determined to have the last word, said, ``you've got the record wrong.''
dukakis took the fight to gore, as well
al gore has never run a government, never balanced a budget, never had to pick a cabinet,'' he said, adding that the only time the tennessee senator negotiated anythng, it was a compromise on arms control with the reagan administration and he ``got taken to the cleaners.''
but gore said dukakis had raised questions about his own foreign policy competence by suggesting that he might accept a soviet client state in central america or withdraw u.s. troops from south korea in response to human rights abuses
the other disputes in the 90-minute confrontation paled by comparison, although they lurked everywhere
jackson jabbed at dukakis' plan for increased tax collection by saying, ``we cannot just be the irs agents for reaganomics and collect uncollected taxes ... reaganomics is fundamentally in error.''
hart criticized israel's crackdown on the west bank and challenged his other rivals to say the same
said jackson: ``i said it first.''
after the debate ended, dukakis responded to gore's charges that he lacked foreign policy experience. ``it's kind of silly for any one of us to say we've got superior experience to be president,'' he said
but gore said: ``i thought mike dukakis demonstrated the danger of trying to learn foreign policy in a two-day cram course at the kennedy school of government in boston.''
and gephardt said that for those who opposed the 1981 tax cut and the 1986 tax reform ``the only conclusion you can draw is you're for taxes.''
the republican presidential contenders arranged a debate on the same stage sunday
fourteen southern and border states, including every state of the south except south carolina, hold primaries on march 8. together with the six non-southern states, nearly one-third of the nominating delegates in both parties are at stake
thirty pilot whales perished after they beached on the gulf of california coast. a biologist said saturday the cause of death was unknown but the mass beaching of pilot whales is a natural phenomenon
they are whales that normally beach in large groups,'' said luis fleischer, a program director of the federal fishing department, in a telephone interview from baja california
he said the 26 male and four female whales beached about five days ago along a three-mile stretch of northern baja california's gulf coastline
they all are dead now and in an advanced state of decomposition,'' fleischer said
adult pilot whales are about 9-15 feet long
fleischer said the area is about 155 miles north of the zone where the government intends to declare a land and sea wildlife preserve. the preserve is intended to protect the gray whale, a once nearly extinct species, which reproduces in the lagoons on baja california's pacific coast
it has nothing to do with the reserve,'' fleischer said of the deaths of the pilot whales. the reserve is in southern baja california state
the biologist said research would be done to determine if weather conditions or what other reasons might be responsible for the beaching
the newspaper excelsior quoted augusto ferrer macgregor, a representative for the fishing department in northern baja california, as saying that for the past two months about 1,000 pilot whales have been in the area where the beaching took place
the successful 1,000th test firing this past week of a main space shuttle engine at nasa's national space technology laboratories shows the engine's reliability, officials say
this 1,000th test is a milestone,'' nstl director jerry hlass said
the test was conducted thursday night for a duration of 9 minutes, 33 seconds
engine 0211 is being checked out ... and early indications show the test firing was a succcess,'' boyce mix, the engine test manager at marshall space flight center in huntsville, ala., said friday
space shuttle main engine testing has been conducted at nstl since june 1975
last year at nstl, there was a record number of engine tests in terms of test duration _ 33,738 seconds, the equivalent time the engines would be required to perform for 22 shuttle launches,'' hlass said. ``our team is working very diligently to do its part in returning the shuttle to safe flight.''
thursday night's test was the 11th conducted this year, said mack herring, nstl public affairs officer
each shuttle orbiter is powered by three main engines, which operate for the first 8.5 minutes of flight to propel the shuttle to the point of near-earth orbit
all main engines used for shuttle missions are test-fired three times before they are transported by truck to the kennedy space center in florida
the testing is conducted by the rocketdyne division of rockwell international, the national aeronautics and space administration's prime contractor for the shuttle engines. honeymoon</head>
a 90-year-old man has been accused of killing his bride of less than a week during an argument over whether the newlyweds should take a honeymoon cruise, police said saturday
vincenzo quinto was booked on a charge of second-degree murder, said metro-dade police spokesman rey valdes. quinto was admitted to a jail ward at jackson memorial hospital because of his age, valdes added
ana quinto, 76, died friday of ``blunt trauma to the head,'' valdes said
detective pat diaz said the couple met four months ago and married one week ago saturday. quinto had moved to miami a few years ago after retiring from his job as a contractor in new york
police on duty saturday did not know if it was quinto or his wife who wanted to take a cruise. york, picking up 5th graf pvs, `in the...'. subs 10th graf, `the coalition...', to correct amount of reward offered in new jersey case to $1,000 sted $10,000. note language in 3rd graf.</note>
a black woman was attacked by two white men who smeared her with excrement, painted markings on her face and clipped her hair, police said saturday
the injured woman was hospitalized for 12 days after the incident earlier this month, police said. they said they were unsure whether it was a ``copycat'' attack patterned after the highly publicized case of a black girl in wappingers falls, n.y
that girl, tawana brawley, 16, was found last november wrapped in a plastic garbage bag and covered with excrement. the word ``nigger'' and ``kkk'' were scrawled on her body and she said she had been sexually assaulted by six white men. some of her hair also had been chopped off
about 600 demonstrators marched peacefully through poughkeepsie, n.y., saturday to protest the treatment of miss brawley and the stalled investigation of the assault
we come to you with hate in our eyes,'' said lawyer alton maddox jr., addressing gov. mario cuomo rhetorically. ``we come to you with hate in our hearts. you are not talking to foot-shufflers.''
the protest leaders have been calling on cuomo to remove state attorney general robert abrams from the case. cuomo had named abrams as a special prosecutor to investigate the case after two local prosecutors claimed conflicts of interest
the leaders want a new, permanent prosecutor named for statewide race-related crimes. they have said the victim and her family won't cooperate with the investigation until then
the case has grown into a cause celebre among some civil rights activists, and actor bill cosby posted a reward for information in the investigation
in the newton case, the victim was attacked feb. 8 in a stairwell outside her downtown apartment. she was not sexually assaulted, police said
police detective john tomasula said he believes the attack was racially motivated because of statements the men made to the victim. tomasula declined to disclose what they said. the assailants were believed to be in their 20s
police believe the assault was not premeditated against the woman, hildegard smith
i'm sure if anyone went down (the stairwell), something was going to happen,'' tomasula said. ``she was in the wrong place at the wrong time and they just took advantage of her.''
ms. smith, 50, was treated for trauma for 12 days at newton memorial hospital, said the rev. william sadler, one of the leaders of a community coalition
the coalition, made up of mostly white clergy and civic leaders, is offering a $1,000 reward for information leading to the arrest of the assailants
ms. smith's family last week gave permission for the coalition to disclose her name and condition to help catch her attackers, sadler said
we wanted the people to know what had happened,'' he said. ``we wanted to support the woman and wanted to bring the whole community together to say we don't want this kind of thing to happen.''
rep. richard gephardt's democratic presidential rivals wrote an obituary for his trade policies saturday, but michael dukakis said ``burial has been postponed until after super tuesday in deference to the next of kin.''
gephardt, whose legislation would penalize foreign countries that have trade surpluses with the united states, told his opponents during a campaign debate that his measure seeks to discourage other countries from being protectionist
the house included gephardt's provision in the sweeping trade bill, but no such language appears in the senate's version of the legislation
house-senate negotiators say they are unlikely to take action on the proposal until after the super tuesday primaries march 8. most participants say they expect gephardt's amendment to be changed
the gephardt amendment is dead,'' dukakis told the missouri congressman during one exchange. ``you know that.''
i don't know that, mike,'' gephardt responded. ``where did you hear that?''
it's burial has been postponed until after super tuesday in deference to the next of kin, but it's dead,'' the massachusetts governor said to laughter from the audience
sen. albert gore jr., d-tenn., said it would be ``false and misleading'' to imply that unfair trading practices by other countries account for more than 10 to 15 percent of the u.s. trade deficit
the real answer is not just bashing other countries,'' said sen. paul simon, d-ill. ``the real answer is having an effective president who understands the issue and then moves.''
moments later, former sen. gary hart of colorado said, ``the worst idea put forward in this campaign is protectionism.''
he said gephardt's amendment ``will lead us toward a trade war, at least increase the likelihood of that trade war, which in turn could trigger market crashes and depressions.''
gary, your thinking is stuck in the past,'' gephardt said
yours is,'' said hart, as the two men, seated side by side, pointed fingers at each other
why do we continually apologize for unfair trade practices by other countries ... ,'' gephardt asked. ``all i'm saying is let's stand up for the fairness for our people.'' shultz arriving in israel, comments, plans for sunday. pickup 5th pvs: `jordan and syria ...</note>
leaders of jordan and syria told secretary of state george p. shultz saturday that his proposals for a middle east settlement were unacceptable
we did not reach any agreement,'' shultz said after a three-hour meeting with syrian president hafez assad, which followed a similarly unsuccessful meeting in jordan
we expressed our opinion in an open and frank way. no agreement was reached,'' said syrian foreign minister farouk al-sharaa who also met with shultz
after arriving back in jerusalem late saturday, shultz said he had not given up hope on his plan
the idea in negotiations of this kind is to get people to be realistic,'' shultz said. ``we are not there yet.''
he resumes his attempts to gain acceptance of accelerated negotiations on palestinian self-rule on sunday in talks with israeli prime minister yitzhak shamir and foreign minister shimon peres. shultz then flies to cairo to try to enlist the support of president hosni mubarak of egypt
shultz's failure to reach an agreement saturday centered around the involvement of the soviet union and the palestine liberation organization in negotiations for peace
jordan and syria, which has close relations with moscow, want the plo and the soviets to participate in an international conference on peace in the middle east. the united states and israel want to exclude the plo and to limit soviet influence
u.s. policy forbids american diplomats to meet ranking plo officials because the u.s. adminstration regards the plo as a terrorist organization
sharaa said the syrians had listened carefully to shultz's ideas
a solution to the problem of the middle east cannot be reached without the elimination of the israeli occupation of all occupied arab territories and safeguarding of palestinian national rights,'' sharaa said
syria's state-run television said assad and the u.s. secretary discussed ``the american ideas that shultz carried with him'' concerning the arab-israeli conflict
the u.s. plan calls for immediate talks on palestinian self-rule and negotiations by december on the final status of the west bank and gaza strip, which israel seized from egypt and jordan in the 1967 middle east war
the syrian side found that these ideas do not lead to a comprehensive peace formula,'' the television said
after the meeting, shultz flew back to israel from damascus
shultz was the first u.s. secretary of state to go to damascus since 1983
the reagan administration, accusing syria of supporting terrorism, attempted to isolate the country diplomatically in october 1986
but syria's influence in the arab world and its military strength makes it impossible to ignore when it comes to peace in the middle east
shultz took his peace plan to syria after running into stiff resistance from jordan saturday morning
jordanian foreign minister taher masri, after meeting shultz, also insisted on soviet and plo participation in the negotiations shultz is trying to set up
when shultz arrived earlier saturday, the official damascus radio broadcast a commentary noting signs of a positive shift in the united states' mideast policy
referring to reagan's statements at a news conference wednesday night, the state radio said reagan was looking for a comprehensive settlement because of palestinian unrest in israeli-held territories, which has left scores of arabs dead since december
but the shift was obviously not enough for the syrians
shultz last saw assad in 1983. he accused the syrian leader of undercutting a u.s.-backed pact between lebanon and israel that year
three years later, the u.s. state department accused syria of involvement in at least 40 incidents of terrorism and imposed diplomatic and economic sanctions
but shultz, on his way to israel wednesday night, said syrian involvement in terrorism ``seems to have declined'' and he intended to find out how helpful syria might be in a middle east settlement
before shultz's arrival, syrian state radio had been scornful of the u.s. mission, calling it ``nothing but a political airlift to rescue israel'' under pressure of palestinian uprisings
shultz is trying set up negotiations by the end of the year on a final arab-israel settlement that would resolve the palestinian problem
but israeli prime minister shamir urged shultz on friday to move slowly and to aim for a test period of limited palestinian self-rule
the plo, in a statement released in jordan hours after shultz's departure, said it is willing to meet u.s. officials ``on any level,'' and said american rejection of a meeting shows the united states is not serious about arab-israeli peace. army saying four soldiers will be tried in military court. pickup 7th pvs: the clashes in ...</note>
israeli soldiers killed three palestinians during clashes in the occupied territories saturday, hospital officials said. police detained two american teachers carrying posters listing the names of slain arabs
arabs burned tires and threw rocks in jerusalem and other israeli cities to protest the peace mission of u.s. secretary of state george p. shultz, while a group of israelis held a rally in support of the initiative
on the occupied west bank of the jordan river, protesters clashed with soldiers in hebron, the nearby village of halhoul and an arrub refugee camp. the army said soldiers killed two palestinians and wounded 15
hospital officials said three people were killed, including 17-year-old maged al atrash of halhoul who died of gunshot wounds to the abdomen late saturday at jerusalem's mukassad hospital. the doctors said 27 people were wounded
soldiers fatally shot nihad abdul ghafour, 20, of arrub and baker abdullah al bao, 17, of halhoul, according to the hospital officials. the deaths brought to 71 the number of palestinians killed by israelis since the recent wave of unrest began dec. 8
the army reported saturday that a 15-month-old jewish child suffered a broken skull when assailants hurled a stone at his family's car in jerusalem in an attack friday
israel radio quoted the army's west bank commander, maj. gen. amram mitzna, as saying saturday that four soldiers would be tried in a military court on charges they beat two arabs who were lying on the ground and had their hands tied behind their backs
the soldiers were detained friday and their commanding officer, a captain, was suspended after cbs television filmed the beatings thursday in the west bank city of nablus and showed the footage to mitzna. the general also ordered the release of the two arabs
the film was shown on television stations in several european countries, and foreign ministry officials said saturday that israeli embassies in europe received dozens of telegrams protesting the beatings
the clashes in halhoul and arrub began when masked youths blocked the main jerusalem-hebron highway, the army said. soldiers fired tear gas, rubber bullets and gunshots to drive the stone-throwers away from the highway
for several hours, soldiers surrounded hebron's alia hospital, firing tear gas at stone-throwing demonstrators nearby, said a nurse, speaking on condition of anonymity
the army imposed curfews on the areas around hebron, but allowed jewish settlers to move freely, military officials said. the army also extended curfews on four gaza strip refugee camps, restricting 120,000 people, or nearly 10 percent of the 1.5 million arabs in the occupied territories, to their homes
in the west bank city of ramallah, police detained american teachers alison glick, 25, of cincinnati, and john benvenuto, in his 40s, of albany, n.y., because they allegedly possessed inciting material, said joost hiltermann, a friend of the two and researcher for the ramallah-based civil rights group law in the service of man
ramallah police refused to discuss the case
hiltermann said ms. glick and benvenuto were detained while walking in ramallah and carrying posters with names of palestinians killed by israelis in the past 11 weeks
benvenuto and ms. glick, teachers at a quaker school in ramallah, were not allowed to see a lawyer, said hiltermann
david good, a spokesman for the u.s. consulate in east jerusalem, said he was informed of the detentions but could not elaborate
in jerusalem, about 3,000 israelis attended a rally organized by the ``peace now'' movement near the home of prime minister yitzhak shamir. demonstrators carried banners reading `say yes to the peace initiative.''
speakers urged the government to trade land for peace, a formula advocated by shultz, but opposed by shamir
also in jerusalem, palestinian protesters blocked roads near the shufat refugee camp, throwing stones and burning tires. police dispersed the crowd with rubber bullets and arrested six protesters
about 3,000 police officers, double the usual number, were deployed in jerusalem after palestinian organizers last week called for stepped-up protests during the five-day shultz visit
shultz, on a mission to seek agreement on guidelines for starting arab-israeli talks, met with syrian and jordanian leaders in damascus and amman saturday and returned to jerusalem later in the day
in northern israel, meanwhile, hundreds of left-wing israeli arabs took to the streets to protest the shultz visit and the israeli crackdown on the protests. there were no reports of violence, and police did not interfere
four hundred protesters demonstrated in umm el fahm, a town of 30,000, the site of frequent anti-israeli violence. in the arab town of shefaram, also in northern israel, about 300 israeli arabs demonstrated
since the protests began in the occupied territories, many of israel's 700,000 arab citizens have expressed support for their brethren in the west bank and gaza strip
irish banker john guinness, whose wife was kidnapped two years ago and held captive for eight days, was fatally injured saturday in a 500-foot fall on snowdon mountain in north wales, police reported
they said guinness, a cousin of members of the guinness brewing family, was accompanied on the climb by his 49-year-old wife, jennifer, their son ian and three friends. guinness, 52, plunged from the snow-covered path as the party descended from the summit of the 3,560-foot mountain, according to police
guinness suffered multiple injuries and was airlifted off the mountain by a royal air force helicopter but was dead on arrival at a hospital in bangor, 10 miles away
a police spokesman said, ``they were ill-equipped for such a walk bearing in mind the conditions
the weather was not particularly bad but the conditions underfoot were very hazardous where the accident occurred.''
the couple had three children
jennifer guinness was kidnapped from the family home near dublin april 8, 1986, and held captive for a ransom of two million irish pounds _ then $2.6 million
eight days later, police besieged the hideout where she was held and freed her without payment of the ransom
her three abductors surrendered and three other people were arrested later
mrs. guinness was praised by police for keeping calm and playing a key role in the negotiations during the siege
guinness was chairman of the dublin merchant bank guinness and mahon
on the day of his wife's abduction, he returned home from work to find her and their 23-year-old daughter, gillian, tied up. the abductors pistol-whipped him and tied him. two and a half hours after they fled he managed to free himself and telephoned police
the guinnesses were married in 1959. their third child, tania, is in her 20s
guinness was regarded as one of ireland's finest long-distance sailors and once sailed the atlantic with his wife
he was sixth cousin of the titular head of the centuries-old family, the third earl of iveagh. the earl is chairman of the world famous brewery that bears the family name
hard-line leftists won control of britain's largest union saturday at a time when the union-financed labor party is seeking to moderate its stance after three successive electoral defeats
the transport and general workers union, with 1.4 million members nationwide, elected 23 hard-left candidates to its 39-member national executive council. the moderate faction supporting labor party leader neil kinnock previously had a 21-18 majority
the transport workers union has a 1,250,000 block vote for the equivalent of 20 percent of the total voting power at the labor party conference and could create obstacles for reforms kinnock is seeking
welsh-born kinnock, 45, who took over the leadership in 1983, waged a polished campaign in the june 1987 general election but still lost resoundingly to prime minister margaret thatcher's conservatives
at the labor party conference in september, kinnock told the delegates the 87-year-old party must ``face the realities of changing society. ... what do you say to a docker who earns 400 pounds ($700) a week, owns his house, a new car, microwave and video? you do not say `let me take you out of your misery brother.'''
the party then voted overwhelmingly for a policy review
ron todd, union general secretary, said saturday, ``the policy of our union will be maintained. our support for the (labor) party and its leader will be maintained.''
we are involved in the labor party on an exercise on policy review,'' he added. ``our union will take its decision on the review policy but it has always given consistent support to the party. it's not a blank check and mr. kinnock knows that.''
dennis skinner, left-wing labor member of parliament and a member of the party's ruling national executive, said: ``this result, together with the ford strike and the (national health service) campaign, indicates a new-found belief in strong trade unionism, and every socialist should welcome these results
the left has had a few lean years. now, the omens look rather better.'' auto workers struck all the british plants of ford motor co. feb. 8-11th in britain's first major industrial strike in three years
the workers had rejected their leaders' recommendation that they accept offered pay increases and a three-year contract. instead they won an increased pay settlement and a two-year pact. labor leaders called it the first significant union victory in seven years
nurses staged a one-day strike feb. 3 to protest their hours and wages and express concern for the condition of the publicly financed national health service. they said it must have more resources. warfare,'' similar threat a week ago against pan am apparently not carried out; brief work stoppage at detroit, background on talks at pan am, other detail, deleting some pvs material to tighten. no pickup.</note>
northwest airlines planes continued flying saturday and a union spokesman said strike preparations by 6,700 flight attendants were ``put on hold'' even though all-night contract talks hit a snag
consensus was reached on all issues except wages during a 22-hour bargaining session, said william wren, northwest's vice president for public relations. but union officials said there were other issues still unsettled
wren said he did not know when talks might resume
the union's rank-and-file negotiating committee met late saturday afternoon to receive direction from about 20 teamsters unit representatives from around the country, said william genoese, international director of the teamsters airline division
genoese said a strike was still possible, though he said talks with northwest might be resumed
genoese also threatened what he termed ``guerrilla warfare'' _ which he defined as a decline in attentiveness by flight attendants _ should there be no settlement or support for a strike
when you beat up on the workers who service the passengers, they beat up on the passengers,'' he said. ``you can't beat up on people in a service business.'' he had made the same threat a week ago against another airline, pan am, after those talks broke off, but no significant disruption in service has been reported, pan am said
a request by the federal mediator involved in the northwest talks to delay a strike helped avert a walkout saturday morning, he said
the government wants to take another crack at this,'' he said. ``it was 8 in the morning and everybody had been working all night. maybe some of the numbers fell through the cracks.''
the airline proposes to stretch from five to nine years the time in which an employee advances from a ``b'' or lower pay scale to the ``a'' schedule, a change the union is resisting, union officials said
in another area of disagreement, the union wants a three-year contract rather than the 4{-year pact offered by the airline. also, the sides are divided over the issue of retroactive pay, negotiators said
earlier, in the morning, genoese said workers were being told to walk out
teamsters local 2747 spokesman jeff musto said, however, that no strike had been called, and spot checks by the associated press at airports around the nation served by the nation's fifth largest airline found no pickets or other strike activity. airline operations were reported normal from honolulu to boston
on any given day you're subject to some delayed flights, but we're operating as scheduled normally,'' wren said saturday afternoon
there was a 20-minute work stoppage early saturday at detroit's metropolitan airport, union spokesman richard leebove said, adding that about 200 northwest machinists joined 70 flight attendants saturday afternoon in a rally at the airport
many of the 75 flight attendants who assembled at strike headquarters in eagan for picketing duty left by noon
representatives for the airlines and the union had continued negotiations after a midnight est deadline friday, but the negotiations recessed saturday morning
we did everything we possibly could to avoid a strike,'' genoese said during the morning. ``apparently the company feels it wants to take a strike on. if we want to close down the airline, we can close it down.''
a spokesman for northwest said the airline was prepared to carry out its strike-management program, but hoped that talks would resume
about 2,000 managers trained as flight attendants were posted throughout the northwest system with 200 newly hired replacement flight attendants also ready to move, said terry erskine, the airline's vice president for law and labor relations
there was no immediate word on whether flight attendant picket lines would be honored by pilots or machinists
tyler said the machinists are under a contract that forbids them to strike in sympathy with another union; the pilots' union said no decision had been made on its role
since northwest acquired republic airlines in 1986, former republic flight attendants have been working under their old contract, and many former republic employees are paid less than their northwest counterparts
northwest is trying to bring the workers under one contract and offered to bring former republic employees up to the salary levels of northwest employees. but the union claimed the airline is compensating by reducing vacation pay and retirement benefits
meanwhile, pan am corp. is continuing negotiations with the teamsters, which represent 4,500 pan am reservations agents, customer service employees and other ground workers. the union had threatened to strike because management is seeking $35 million in concessions
formal talks broke off last weekend and a strike deadline passed, but the employees kept working and informal talks have continued by telephone, pan am spokesman james a. arey said saturday
there was no evidence the teamsters carried out a threat of ``guerrilla warfare'' at pan am, he said
about 5,000 members of a right-wing paramilitary group rallied saturday to demand a whites-only state in south africa and urge the government to strengthen apartheid legislation
members of the afrikaner resistance movement held a four-hour ceremony in pretoria, saying the government was attempting to ``sell out'' its whites. the group also burned the flag of the african national congress, an outlawed black guerrilla group that supports majority black rule
the protesters, many wearing uniforms and carrying pistols, said prayers, sang and waved flags
they commemorated an 1881 victory by the afrikaners over the british in the town of majuba, which leader eugene terreblanche said was symbolic of the afrikaners' present-day struggle to establish a homeland
the day is coming when this government will capitulate (to blacks),'' terreblanche said. ``the awb must prepare ... because that is when we will take over the country.''
if you scrap the apartheid laws, you can expect south africa to follow the same route as the other (african) colonies, which have decayed and rotted,'' he said. ``without apartheid laws we cannot have order. and without order this country will disintegrate.''
apartheid, by law and custom, establishes a racially segregated society in which south africa's 26 million blacks have no vote in national affairs. the 5 million whites control the economy and maintain separate districts, schools and health services
the demonstration followed wednesday's government crackdown which banned 18 of the country's leading black opposition groups from engaging in politics
terreblance did not comment on the crackdown
after the meeting, group members traveled to the union buildings, the government's executive headquarters, to present a petition calling for a whites-only state in south africa
riot police blocked the entrance to the building, but accepted the petition from terreblanche. there were no reports of violence or arrests
the right-wing group is made up almost exclusively of afrikaners, the dutch-descended settlers of south africa. the group rejects all concessions from south africa's 5 million whites to the nation's 26 million black majority
in other developments saturday, security forces began erecting a five-foot barbed-wire fence around most of the ktc squatter camp outside cape town
the ktc camp has been the site of ongoing faction fighting among rival black groups in recent weeks. police said two people were killed and 20 shacks were flattened in fighting last week
witnesses said the fence, which stretched for more than a mile, had three openings for residents to enter and exit. several thousand people live in the ktc camp
in june 1986, 70,000 people lost their homes and scores of people were killed in ktc and three other sections of the crossroads squatter complex during an onslaught by black vigilantes
the pilot who abandoned a twin-engine cessna along a closed highway in september 1985 left behind nearly a ton of cocaine and the clue eventually led to the indictment of panamanian gen. manuel antonio noriega, a newspaper reported saturday
the cessna's pilot, anthony azpruia, told prosecutors about the noriega link after his arrest, the miami herald reported. his cooperation and implication of miami-based aircraft parts business diasca sparked an investigation
the investigation of alleged panamanian drug trafficking was completed by miami-based federal officials whose information was ignored by drug enforcement administration officials in the u.s. embassy in panama city and in washington, according to a senate foreign relations subcommittee counsel and the chief assistant u.s. attorney in miami
there's absolutely no question that, through all the administrations since 1969, we had more than adequate information that this guy (noriega) was a dope dealer and chose to ignore it,'' said richard gregorie, chief assistant u.s. attorney in miami
even when we wanted to indict him, there were two factions within the dea,'' he said. ``people were satisfied with what they were getting out of panama, that he was doing enough. the other faction wanted to work the case. we really didn't send a lot up to washington. we stayed clear of it.''
diasca had already been penetrated by dea agent dan moritz when pilot azpruia made his emergency landing on a closed section of interstate 75 in south florida on sept. 25, 1985
running out of fuel and pursued by a dea helicopter, azpruia landed and abandoned the $1 million plane and its cargo, about 900 kilograms or roughly 1,980 pounds of cocaine
moritz said diasca president alfredo caballero provided aircraft for ``cocaine-smuggling ventures'' by 38-year-old pilot floyd carlton, who is now the government's key witness against noriega
moritz said the diasca office was used for ``planning smuggling ventures, for assembling and distributing large cash proceeds of narcotics transactions and for placing telephone calls.''
caballero denies any involvement in drug trafficking
four months after the cessna's highway landing, caballero, his son, azpruia, carlton and three others were indicted. all were jailed but carlton, who was in panama
azpruia told prosecutors that there was a noriega connection, but investigators needed carlton to make a case
carlton was pursued not only by authorities in florida but by drug lords in colombia who believed he had stolen a cocaine shipment of more than 1,100 pounds from them, the herald reported
carlton was so worried that he went to the u.s. embassy in panama city and told dea agents there about noriega's alleged role in the drug smuggling
when i mentioned the name of general noriega, they immediately became upset, and i noticed that. of course, i became nervous at that point,'' carlton has said
the embassy confession was a bungled opportunity, said jack blum, counsel to a senate foreign relations subcommittee
the minute the boys hear what he's got, they turn cold, like he's a lunatic,'' blum said. ``when he tells them about noriega, there's an understanding that this isn't a healthy place to talk about it.''
he was seeking help. but he wasn't seeking help as far as being willing to come to the united states and testify,'' gregorie said
carlton eventually went to colombia, confronted the drug lords and, with a kind word from the boss of colombia's medellin cartel, the pressure was reduced, the newspaper said
miami investigators used caballero to set up a trap in costa rica to capture carlton. since then, carlton has given detailed depositions about drug flights he says he flew to the united states under arrangement with noriega and has testified before the senate. all letters quoted were published in sunday editions of the newspaper, which becomes available saturday, sted published saturday and sunday. picks up 8th graf, `k_he said...'.</note>
serial killer john wayne gacy believes he will be paroled, cried while watching the olympics and says ``it doesn't always pay to be good to people,'' according to letters published sunday
the letters were written by gacy and sent to sue terry, 43, of centralia. she says gacy has proposed and she would marry him, the chicago sun-times said in sunday's early editions
gacy, 45, now on death row, was convicted of killing 33 young men and boys, 29 of whom were found buried under or near his home outside chicago
i don't believe hardly any of it,'' ms. terry told the sun-times. ``i really don't. ... he doesn't think he's guilty. to me he don't seem like he could hurt anyone
we're real close,'' she said. ``i like john, and he trusts me. i guess i love him. yes.''
gacy wrote 41 letters to ms. terry, who is divorced, from oct. 5, 1986, to feb. 16, 1988. she shared some of them with the newspaper and the sun-times said it would publish the letters for a week
the portions published in sunday's editions, which became available saturday, ranged from gacy's thoughts on freedom to his disdain for queen elizabeth ii:
_he said he was moved by the performance of olympic speed skater dan jansen, whose sister died while he was competing in calgary
she wanted him to go on and skate for her. and in the first turn he lost his balance and fell. the tears just rolled down my face. and i don't even know him,'' gacy wrote
_ms. terry asked gacy about an eventual release from prison
you asked me what i'll do when i get my freedom. i don't deal in fantasy that much. it will be hard. don't forget it may be as long as 10 years before i get this monkey off my back. and that's a lot to make up for as i have eight years or more done already.''
i have land in five states. most of it is where i don't want to live _ florida, arizona, illinois, wisconsin and minnesota. hey, you want to live on an island? i think that would be great
if you got mad at someone, they couldn't get away from you.''
in another letter quoted in sunday's editions, gacy had more to say about what he would do if free
i am being sued for $697 million right now. start paying that off,'' he wrote. ``the numbers don't mean a thing, as they can have it all. just give me my freedom. i'll make what i need so fast anyway as i have a knack for making money
i already told you what kind of house i am going to build. ... i am going to make it a halfway house for horny girls and party my butt off in orgies. can you dig it?'' many of the boys and young men gacy is convicted of killing had been sexually molested before they died, prosecutors said
_gacy says he has no affection for britain's queen elizabeth
i can't stand royalty. when people are starving, we have these sissy types wasting money. ... since when do you bow to another human being? they are no better than you.''
in another letter, gacy writes, ``it doesn't always pay to be good to people, even family.''
ms. terry could not be reached for comment by telephone saturday; there is no telephone listing for her in centralia
marvin ziporyn, a chicago forensic psychiatrist who analyzed the letters for the newspaper, said they give a clear understanding of gacy's personality
he doesn't discuss the (murder) case in the letters, but they show the mechanics of his personality like what makes a watch tick,'' ziporyn said
i think what's important is that he's `john wayne' gacy. john wayne like the movie star, and his trying to live up to that image is an important part of his personality,'' ziporyn said. address</head>
some michigan state university trustees are questioning plans for the rev. jesse jackson to deliver the university's winter commencement address two weeks before the state's democratic caucuses
opponents have said that allowing jackson to speak would break a 71-year-old tradition. since 1917, no candidate for public office has addressed michigan state graduates
joel ferguson, a trustee who also is jackson's michigan campaign director, said jackson was scheduled to deliver the march 12 address before declaring he would seek the democratic presidential nomination
michigan democrats will hold their caucuses march 26
ferguson said the speech would be non-political, something other trustees doubted
there's absolutely no way he can write a speech that doesn't look and sound presidential,'' trustee thomas reed said. ``even when he comes here and talks about his grandmother, it will have some political overtones.''
trustee kathy wilbur called on the michigan state to adopt a rule to prevent presidential candidates from making commencement addresses at the university
michigan state president john dibiaggio has supported jackson's selection as the winter commencement speaker
we wanted to have the rev. jackson because he is a distinguished leader, a humanitarian ... a positive role model for minorities and others,'' dibiaggio said. ``there's a great deal of enthusiasm among the student body.''
but dibiaggio added that banning candidates from speaking ``has some legitimacy.''
several notable politicians have given commencement addresses at michigan state, including then-vice president richard nixon in 1957 and former president harry s. truman in 1960, but none was running for office at the time. authorities annoucing two arrests, one suspect freed on recognizance, picking up 22nd graf, `the gunman...'.</note>
a ku klux klan group's protest of the dallas police department's new affirmative action hiring plan turned into a melee saturday when an anti-kkk group charged the hooded klansmen and other white supremacists
police clubbed members of the crowd of about 200 and some protesters sustained minor injuries, authorities said. eight people were arrested on minor charges, police said
members of the anti-kkk group held a rally and burned confederate and nazi flags in front of city hall, where about a dozen klansmen had gathered to stage a news conference against the affirmative action plan
members of the placard-carrying anti-kkk crowd surrounded the klansmen and shouted ``go away. ... dallas doesn't want you. we don't want you.''
as the klan marched around city hall plaza, an elderly black woman was punched in the face by a white man, who was arrested for aggravated assault
that was the worst thing. we put him right in jail. i don't know why he did it but it certainly instigated a few tempers to pop,'' said deputy chief r.l. schifelbein
the anti-klan protesters threw bottles and horse manure at the klansmen as tactical squad police armed with clubs and mounted officers tried to ring the hooded men and keep the crowd back. police dogs converged on the scene as officers tried to break up the feuding factions
skirmishes erupted several times during the one-hour confrontation, with opponents in the crowd spitting on each other
klansmen seeking to escape the hostile crowd squeezed into cars and tried to leave the scene. as they were attempting to flee, an officer hit one anti-klan demonstrator in the stomach with a club
some of the demonstrators apparently resented police protection of the klan and shouted ``cops kill the people!'' one man yelled ``shoot a cop!''
the demonstration also drew a group of ``skinheads,'' or white supremacists with shaven heads.the skinheads usually remained outside the ring of police protection, and it was between this group and the crowd that most of the fights and pushing occurred
the rev. leonard charles stovall led the anti-klan crowd in prayer after the melee. speaking of police, he said, ``lord help them be responsible to everybody.''
schifelbein said the klansmen came from connecticut
we did not invite them. we don't want that kind of support. we want the support of the people of dallas and not some idiot from connecticut,'' he said
the news conference was scheduled by a man who identified himself as david white, of the invisible empire, knights of the ku klux klan based in shelton, conn
the city council implemented the affirmative action hiring plan earlier this year in response to critics' charges that the police department did not reflect the city's racial makeup
racial tension in dallas increased in recent weeks after the fatal shootings of three police officers and four other men who were shot by police
the most controversial shooting was the death of white officer john glenn chase, who was killed by a mentally ill, black transient who grabbed his gun and then shot him while a street-corner crowd watched and some witnesses allegedly shouted ``shoot, shoot!'' the transient was later killed by police
after that shooting, police chief billy prince said criticism of the department by minority elected officials had fostered an environment of ill-will between the minority community and police
critics of the police have blasted the department, saying officers are too trigger happy when confronting minorities. criticism of the department also led to a congressional hearing last spring
the latest shooting occurred friday, when off-duty officer gary d. mccarthy, 33, was gunned down during an attempted robbery at a grocery store where he was moonlighting as a security guard
saturday evening, police announced two arrests, and said one of the two men had late been released on personal recognizance bond. they gave few details, declining to name the suspects or give charges against them
the gunman was black and the victim white, but prince said he didn't think the shooting was racially motivated
the problem is we have too many people on the streets who should be in the penitentiary,'' the chief said. ``there are too many people on the streets who are mean.'' update with robertson peace offering to bush. picks up 9th graf pvs, `meanwhile, there ...'</note>
presidential candidate pat robertson said he made a stop at a baton rouge airport saturday to support fellow evangelist jimmy swaggart because ``in christianity we don't shoot our wounded.''
swaggart, who stepped down from his television pulpit feb. 21 after tearfully admitting to an unspecified sin, reportedly paid a prostitute to pose naked and tried to make a deal with a preacher who confronted him about it
robertson said swaggart was in seclusion at his walled family compound _ routinely guarded by security officers _ and the two felt a personal visit to the home ``would expose him to further unneeded scrutiny by the press.''
robertson's brief airport appearance came while he was en route to huntsville, ala., from houston
the republican candidate said he had talked twice by phone to swaggart on saturday. ``i told him i want to see him soon restored to his pulpit and continue again his magnificent work.''
i am not one who is going to get involved between the assemblies of god, which i admire and appreciate, or jimmy swaggart. that is an inner-church matter,'' robertson, a southern baptist, said when asked if he was urging the assemblies of god to go light on any punishment
louisiana officials of the assemblies of god recommended barring swaggart from preaching for three months, but officials at the group's national headquarters sent the recommendation back, asking for reconsideration
a person is forgiven when he asks for it,'' said robertson. ``in my estimation, god has forgiven him. i just wanted to symbolically put my arm around him and say, `brother, i love you and i am here to tell the world.'''
robertson also made a peace offering to vice president george bush, a fellow gop presidential contender
while we're in an attitude of reconciliation, i think it might be appropriate to ask for reconciliation between me and george bush,'' robertson said when asked if he felt bush had anything to do with disclosures about swaggart. ``i don't wish to have any confusion or animosity between us.''
robertson charged earlier in the week that the disclosures about swaggart and the prostitute were timed to hurt his campaign. he offered no proof, and declined to say who he thought was behind the disclosures. however, in the same interview he accused bush's campaign of ``dirty politics'' and ``trickery'' directed at him
meanwhile, there was no indication when assemblies of god officials in louisiana might submit new punishment proposals for swaggart
i would not have any comment on that. i'm sorry, you know. i just don't have any comment,'' the rev. cecil janway, district superintendent of the church's louisiana district council, said saturday
neither the church nor marvin gorman, the defrocked assemblies of god minister who reportedly confronted swaggart with photographs documenting his indiscretions, has said exactly what they were
but admitted prostitute debra murphree claims swaggart paid her to pose naked and talk dirty to him, but did not have intercourse
she tried to sell her story to the national enquirer for $100,000, but the tabloid rejected her offer after she failed a lie detector test, senior editor paul levy said friday. murphree told wvue-tv on friday that nervousness, drug use and inability to remember some of the questions caused that failure
before the pictures were given to church officials, swaggart offered to help gorman return to the assemblies of god and to have gorman appear on his television show, according to unidentified sources quoted in saturday's editions of the times-picayune in new orleans
gorman, who claimed in a $90 million lawsuit against swaggart and 13 others that swaggart destroyed his ministry by spreading false rumors of numerous adulterous affairs, refused to comment on the report. so did officials at jimmy swaggart ministries in baton rouge
the sources, which the newspaper described as close to gorman, said gorman told swaggart he wasn't especially interested in either offer and gave swaggart four months to deal with his personal problems
there were no strings,'' one source told the newspaper. ``swaggart knew that gorman had photographic proof of his indiscretion but gorman was leaving it up to swaggart to figure out how to deal with it. gorman did not dictate how swaggart should deal with it.''
the newspaper quoted its sources as saying that swaggart appeared truly repentant, and gorman left the meeting satisfied that swaggart was ready to seek the counsel of church elders and accept their advice
gorman wrote swaggart early this month to remind him of the deadline, the newspaper said, but when there was no response people close to gorman gave the photographs to national assemblies of god leaders in springfield, mo
those leaders forbade officials and ministers to talk about the proposed punishment, when a decision might be reached, or anything else about the matter
f.c. chamberlain, a louisiana presbyter who said friday that it was swaggart's complete confession _ not favoritism _ that prompted a recommendation for an unusually short three-month suspension, had no comment saturday
calls to other members of the district council either were not answered or were not returned
the council recommended monday that swaggart undergo two years of rehabilitation and counseling, starting with a three-month suspension from preaching in this country
cbs news, without citing any sources, reported that the church's executive presbytery in springfield told leaders of the louisiana district to order swaggart to step down for a year. the church's general superintendent, g. raymond carlson, refused to say what penalty was recommended
co-pastor jim rentz, who has taken the pulpit at jimmy swaggart ministries during swaggart's preaching tours abroad, was to give sunday's sermon. there was no advance word on its subject. as second reference for gen. benny murdani</note>
president suharto on saturday swore in gen. try sutrisno as the new commander of indonesia's armed forces, replacing gen. benny murdani
before his appointment as commander, sutrisno was army chief
presidential spokesman sudharmono said benny will continue to serve as commander of the national security agency at least until the end of the 11-day session of the people's congress, which is scheduled to begin tuesday
the national security agency was formed in 1966 to restore order after an unsuccessful communist-supported coup attempt the previous year. suharto was appointed its first commander by the late president sukarno
benny became commander of the armed forces and of the security agency in march 1983. entered films, and correct fact that she appeared in four talkies sted three. no pickup.</note>
lula e. ``tiny'' oslund, a former silent screen star known as blanche sweet when she played confident and determined heroines for filmmaker d.w. griffith, has died. she was 92
mrs. oslund's ashes were scattered in the pacific ocean off honolulu following private services friday, the day after she died at home
born in geneseo, ill., in 1895, mrs. oslund began making films while still in her teens. ``the lonedale operator'' (1911) and ``judith of bethulia'' (1913) were two of the films she made with griffith
mrs. oslund went on to work with several other directors, starring in such movies as ``anna christie'' (1923) and ``tess of the d'urbervilles'' (1924)
she made only four movies after the silent era ended, including a bit part in the 1959 danny kaye film ``the five pennies.''
mrs. oslund and her son, wilman f. oslund, moved to hawaii in 1983 from abilene, texas
she also is survived by a sister, vila o. miller, and two grandchildren
a judge ordered the winner of a $1.8 million lottery jackpot to pay half the prize to his former live-in girlfriend
ingham county circuit judge peter houk upheld a claim friday by carolyn eeles of westland that she and her ex-boyfriend, james w. renfro, had an oral agreement to share any winnings from the michigan lotto tickets they bought dec. 18, 1985
one of those tickets turned out to be the jackpot winner. but eeles' lawyer, karl nickolai, said renfro returned to his estranged wife less than two days after claiming all the prize money and then moved to tennessee
houk said renfro testified during the trial that he bought the lotto tickets himself. but the judge said 17 other witnesses contradicted renfro's testimony, including some who vouched for eeles' claim that she and renfro each paid $5 for 10 tickets and that eeles herself picked the winning numbers
renfro was ordered to pay eeles half of the first two after-tax installments, worth about $74,000 each, that he has collected. houk also ordered that eeles receive half of the remaining 18 payments and interest on the first two installments, and that renfro pay her lawyer's fees
i'm thrilled _ there is justice in this land,'' eeles, 43, said afterward. renfro, 48, said the witnesses ``weren't telling the truth.'' with details of luncheon, media reception. picks up 23rd graf pvs, `the royal ...'; should stand for ams.</note>
britain's prince andrew and his wife, sarah, began their official 10-day southern california visit saturday in a typical freeway traffic jam that delayed their arrival at a city hall welcoming ceremony by 25 minutes
the car carrying the duke and duchess of york had to take a detour around the jam on the trip from the royal yacht britannia, moored in long beach, 25 miles south of downtown los angeles. the traffic snarl was caused by an accident on the santa monica freeway
when the royal couple arrived at city hall, they were cheered by about 1,000 people, some of them waving british flags, and mayor tom bradley welcomed them in the city council chambers. the day's events saturday also included visits to chinatown and a school for the performing arts
andrew and sarah were in town to launch uk-la '88, a three-month celebration of british culture and commercial achievement
the united kingdom has sent the diversity of its cultural life to share with us,'' bradley told them. ``we count it a very special honor that you have joined us on this occasion.''
andrew stressed the couple's participation in launching uk-la '88, which he described as an ``ambitious, cultural collaborative venture'' between los angeles and british art groups
during their stay, andrew and sarah are expected to attend a number of the festival's 60 cultural events featuring british and american artists
noting that he and his wife will visit the aircraft carrier uss nimitz at sea during their visit, the prince cited common military obligations shared by the two nations around the world
for us, our visit to one of your ships will remind us of those many parts of the world in central europe, in the persian gulf and elsewhere in which your armed forces and ours stand side by side in common defense or our shared democratic values,'' said the prince, a royal navy helicopter pilot
the city hall reception featured songs by los lobos, an east los angeles group that gave its musical bounce to last year's hit film about ritchie valens, who died in a 1959 plane crash with rock legend buddy holly
los lobos performed two songs, including the rollicking spanish song that valens immortalized, ``la bamba,'' from which last year's movie title was taken. sarah, 28, who is expected the couple's first child in august, kept time with her left heel
after the city hall welcome, the royal pair toured nearby chinatown under light rain
sandy wong, a chinatown resident originally from hong kong, said people who hail from that british colony have a special affection for the royal couple, and she confessed to being particularly impressed by andrew
he's really better looking than the pictures,'' said mrs. wong, 49
the royal couple applauded politely during a performance by elementary school students in a small square. the boys performed a lion dance and the girls a parasol dance
the next stop was a quick visit to the 32nd street school, a ``magnet'' school for performing arts, where the couple was treated to dance performances, jazz music and skits
well done,'' sarah told the young dancers and musicians before the couple sat in on a medieval history lesson to discuss life in a castle
one student asked if there were still dungeons in windsor castle, the official residence of the british ruling family
there used to be dungeons in one part of the castle, andrew responded, but ``there is no use for dungeons nowadays, so they've been brought up to date _ they're now a disco.''
another student asked about the most important responsibility of being a duchess
hope you've got a pad and pencil,'' sarah quipped, then added, ``oh, my husband. he comes first and then my life.''
as a parting gift, students gave the couple three school t-shirts _ one baby-size. the couple's first child is due in august
for lunch, the duke and duchess dined on smoked quail and grilled pacific salmon in a restaurant atop a downtown high-rise. the luncheon crowd was dotted with show business personalities, including ed begley jr. of television's ``st. elsewhere'' and singer marilyn mccoo, host of the ``solid gold'' rock music tv show. later, there was an off-the-record reception for news media representatives on the royal yacht
the royal couple flew in from london on friday afternoon, arriving to spring-like weather five years to the day after the start of a similar tour by andrew's parents, queen elizabeth ii and prince philip, that was marred by rough weather
security personnel experienced some tense moments friday when they discovered a suspicious-looking briefcase about a block from where the yacht britannia was docked. a state department bomb unit blew it up
it was no bomb,'' said a british consulate spokeswoman who did not want her name used. weerst, picking up 6th graf, `they were...'.</note>
four children and their baby sitter were killed by carbon monoxide fumes from a faulty gas heater, officials said saturday
ola weerts and a friend had left the children with a baby sitter friday night and went to dinner
they came back and checked about 9:30 p.m., left again and arrived shortly before midnight and found the majority of them dead,'' said clay county sheriff's lt. tim martin
pronounced dead at mrs. weerts' home here were two of her three children, 10-year-old james and 6-year-old sherri. her friend's granddaughter, julie meador, 10, and baby sitter jennifer bias, 17, were also dead, martin said
the third weerts child, 12-year-old tanya, died saturday evening at shands hospital in nearby gainesville
they were all in their beds, apparently sleeping, except for one 10-year-old on the kitchen floor,'' martin said. ms. bias was found on a living room sofa
it's absolutely the worst multiple death case in one family that we've had in clay county,'' martin said
an autopsy on tanya was scheduled for sunday. autopsies on the others showed they died of acute carbon monoxide poisoning, authorities said
a normal carbon monoxide level was 1 to 2 percent, caused by pollutants like ozone,'' martin said. ``smokers have higher level, maybe 10 percent.''
the four kids had an average of 65 percent,'' he said
ultimately, what has happened was, we feel, a faulty exhaust on a gas furnace became clogged and the carbon monoxide fumes were allowed to back up and disperse through the house,'' martin said
composer, pianist and musical arranger gene vincent de paul, whose collaboration with lyricist don raye on ``pigfoot pete'' got them an oscar nomination, died saturday after a lengthy illness, his daughter said
de paul, who was 68 and had been suffering from a brain tumor, died at his suburban northridge home, daughter april leach said
he often collaborated with raye, and the two were nominated for an academy award in 1942 for the song ``pigfoot pete'' from the film ``hellzapoppin.''
de paul worked with johnny mercer on music for the 1954 film ``seven brides for seven brothers'' and the broadway play, ``l'il abner.'' de paul also worked on the music for the walt disney film, ``the legend of sleepy hollow,'' ms. leach said
de paul was inducted into the songwriters' hall of fame in 1985, ms. leach said. he was born in new york on june 17, 1919
he's had his music recorded from everybody from big bands to phoebe snow and stevie wonder,'' ms. leach said. ``the judds' latest album has one of his songs on it.''
among his biggest hits were ``cow cow boogie,'' ``star eyes,'' ``irresistible,'' ``when you're in love'' and ``mr. five by five.''
he is survived by his daughter, three sons and two grandchildren. a funeral was tentatively planned for thursday, ms. leach said.   
president reagan intends to nominate jill e. kent to be an assistant secretary of treasury for management, the white house said friday
ms. kent, a native of detroit, would succeed john f. w. rogers in the treasury department post
since 1985, ms. kent has been principal deputy assistant secretary for finance and management at the treasury department. before that she was chief of the treasury and general services branch at the office of management and budget
she was acting chief of legislative reference at the department of health and human services from 1978-80
ms. kent graduated from the university of michigan in 1970 and george washington university law school in 1975
senegal's violence-marred electioneering ended friday with president abdou diouf, the heavy favorite, making a final campaign speech before an overflow crowd at the 30,000-seat demba diop sports stadium
diouf was expected to be re-elected and retain his socialist party's majority in the national assembly in elections sunday
four presidential candidates and six of senegal's 17 registered political parties were to contest the multiparty presidential and national assembly elections
a crowd estimated at more than 10,000 went to senegal's independence monument in this capital city friday to attend a final rally for the main opposition candidate, abdoulaye wade, and his senegalese democratic party
security was increased following two days of violence in thies, 42 miles northeast of dakar. truckloads of members of the military intervention group were stationed along dakar's streets
the riot police were deployed against democratic party supporters in two days of running battles in thies, after the government barred a rally by wade's party in the town's main square. troops used tear gas, rubber bullets and truncheons to scatter groups of stone-throwing youths
some democrats claimed more than 100 people, including eight local party officials, were arrested. government official did not comment on the allegations
diouf denounced his opponents, primarily wade, at a rally friday morning in thies at the place de france, site of the earlier clashes
in light of the events of yesterday, i am ashamed of senegal,'' said diouf. ``i thought i was facing men who thought as i did .... unfortunately, these men are men of subversion.''
a socialist party spokesman refused to comment when asked why diouf was allowed to speak in thies while then opposition rally was barred
most of those who fought the riot forces were teen-agers
brawling began thursday
by friday, the youths had armed themselves with sticks and wore motorcycle helmets in preparation for street fighting. during diouf's 10-minute address in thies, the concussion of exploding tear gas canisters could be heard in the surrounding neighborhood. the level of violence friday appeared less intense than the day before, though minor injuries were reported
the socialists were expected to lose some of their 111 seats in the 120-member assembly sunday, although the 52-year-old diouf was expected to win easy re-election to a second five-year term
he has led senegal since 1981, when the nation's first president, leopold sedar senghor, retired. diouf won the 1983 elections with 83.5 percent of the vote to wade's 14.79 percent. three other candidates shared the rest. wade accused diouf's party of rigging the elections, a charge the president denied
wade, 61, a lawyer and three-time presidential candidate, accuses diouf of selling out the country to western creditors and foreign businessmen
wade threatened to turn his party into ``a liberation movement'' if he considered this election to have been rigged
two million of senegal's estimated 7 million people are registered to vote
hungary and the soviet union pledged friendship and support for each other friday as a five-day visit by soviet president andrei gromyko drew to a close
and according to an unexpected announcement by both countries, the hungarian writers' union, which a year ago ran into political trouble after it rejected conservatives in its leadership, signed a working agreement with the soviet writers' union
the friendship pledge came in a final communique signed by gromyko and president karoly nemeth of hungary
gromyko is to return to moscow on saturday, ending his first foreign state visit since assuming the presidency in 1985
the agreement between the writers' unions means they will cooperate in publishing books, exchange visits and sponsor exchanges of students and critics
we are ahead of you'' in terms of glasnost, or openness, viktor karpov, head of the soviet writer's union, chided his hungarian audience at a news conference
earlier, in an interview with a hungarian newspaper, karpov noted that the hungarian writer's union ``has successfully put behind it the difficulties that had arisen within it.''
last year, more than 25 communist party loyalists left the association of about 600 members. culture minister bela koepeczi said the union no longer represented hungary's literary sector after writers chose to elect an independent board, rejecting board members favored by the party
the state then authorized formation of a guild of writers, poets and translators
the head of the hungarian union, tibor cseres, said friday that in the end a ``compromise was reached and neither side had to yield its basic ground.''
he said the compromise made possible the agreement with the soviet writers' union. 24, are asked to use the following story.</note>
the associated press reported erroneously wednesday that southern cross ranch, where scenes for the television show ``dallas'' have been shot, was recently appraised at $61.5 million
the 455-acre ranch, which is to be auctioned march 12, was appraised at $6.15 million
the museum of modern art's director has resigned because of protests about an exhibition in which a printed face of marilyn monroe was imposed on an image of the virgin of guadalupe, patron saint of mexico
more than 100 artists and intellectuals issued a statement friday expressing ``profound indignation'' and demanded reinstatement of jorge alberto manrique
they blamed his resignation on ``the pressure exerted by reactionary groups'' and said ``the director of a museum cannot .. . be raised to be the censor of any work of art,'' the liberal newspaper la jornada reported
the government, which runs the museum, requested manrique's resignation thursday and he complied
on jan. 23, about 1,000 people chanting ``long live christ the king!'' stormed the museum in the chapultepec park and forced the management to close an exhibit called ``alternative spaces'' by rolando de la rosa, 36
he had superimposed the face of the late actress marilyn monroe on an image of the virgin of guadalupe, an object of reverence in mexico where 90 percent of the 80 million citizens are roman catholic
in another work, styled after leonardo da vinci's ``last supper,'' jesus christ had the face of the late mexican actor and singer pedro infante. in ``la sagrada familia'' the baby jesus was replaced by a soccer ball
pro-vida, the group that organized the museum assault, demanded the resignations of manrique and martin reyes vayssade, undersecretary of culture. it also demanded de la rosa be hospitalized for ``social re-education.''
manrique was the only official of the government's fine arts institute, which runs the museum, to condemn the closing of the exhibition, la jornada said
it quoted him as calling for legal action against the protesters, whom he described as ``neo-fascists with clear political objectives.''
inevitably this decision will be interpreted as a pat on the back for the attackers of museums,'' the newspaper quoted him as saying about the forced resignation
earlier, manrique told the weekly magazine proceso: ``to say the mexican people were offended (by the art) is a big lie and absurd.'' no pickup. adds byline.</note>
actress tracy scoggins was attacked in a hotel elevator while in town to serve as a co-host of the miss usa pageant, police said friday
miss scoggins, who played monica colby in the abc series ``the colbys,'' suffered bruises in the attack thursday night, said police lt. j.r. grijalva. she did not require medical attention
antonio garcia, 35, was charged with attempted sexual assault and released on $100 bail set by adolfo romero, an associate magistrate, grijalva said
miss scoggins expressed outrage at what she considered low bail
what that says to me is that a man like this can save himself a whole expensive night of dinner and dancing and just pay $100 to assault the woman of his choice,'' she said. ``that's a pretty good deal.''
romero was not in his office late friday
police said garcia had followed miss scoggins to the marriott hotel, where she was staying, and into the elevator
he pulled down the front of her evening gown and attempted to sexually assault her,'' grijalva said. ``she was able to fight him off, and when the door opened, she was able to get out and call for help.''
hotel guests pulled the man out of the elevator and subdued him until hotel security and police arrived, grijalva said
miss scoggins was attacked after returning from a taping of the evening gown and swimsuit competitions
the 51 contestants have been staying in another hotel. miss usa will be crowned tuesday night in a nationally broadcast pageant
a special court convicted and sentenced five people friday for three armed robberies in 1983 designed to help finance the left-wing terrorist group direct action
the sentences _ life imprisonment for one defendent and 13 years for each of the four others _ ended a two-week series of trials of suspected direct action members
a sixth defendant was given a suspended sentence
regis schleicher, 31, was given a life sentence and prosecutor daniel barreyre called him ``a commando chief who shoots like a professional, the most dangerous of the group.''
police considered schleicher a founding member of direct action. the terrorist group has asserted responsibility for numerous bombings, the 1986 fatal shooting of renault president georges besse and the 1985 killing of french gen. rene audran
barreyre had asked for 20-year prison terms for each of the other four: jean-marc rouillan, 35, on his 88th day of a hunger strike; vincenzo spano, 31; nicolas halfen, 24, and his brother, claude, 32
the sixth defendant, frederique germain, 31, cooperated with police and received a five-year suspended prison term
a seven-judge court deliberated just over two hours before handing down the convictions and sentences
the six were convicted of robbing two banks and a jewelry shop in 1983. the holdups netted about $100,000, police said
in one robbery, two policemen were wounded and a member of the gang was killed in a gun fight
rouillan began a hunger strike dec. 1, along with three other suspected direct action members, to protest being kept in isolation in prison
on thursday, france's human rights minister, claude malhuret, said the hunger strike campaign ``plays on the humanitarian sentiments of the french people and must be stopped.''
he said that despite their confinement, the defendants had the right to daily walks, to receive newspapers, listen to the radio and receive visits from family members, lawyers and doctors
the defendents were arrested by police feb. 21, 1987, at a loire valley farm. authorities said direct action terrorist activities ended with the arrests
the three other people on hunger strike are suspected of being direct action leaders. in previous trials, seven suspected direct action members were convicted on various lesser charges and given prison sentences
seven latin american countries asked the united states friday to halt all aid to the rebels fighting nicaragua's leftist government
the foreign ministers of argentina, brazil, colombia, mexico, peru, uruguay and venezuela also signed a declaration calling for a united nations agreement to fight drug trafficking
several foreign ministers indirectly criticized panama's military strongman, gen. manuel antonio noriega, after noriega's allies deposed civilian president eric arturo delvalle early friday
the nations are members of the group of eight, formed last year to assist central american peace efforts. the group ended its three-day meeting in cartagena friday
panama, the eighth member, was not represented after foreign minister jorge abadia left cartagena thursday night because of the political crisis
the group's formal declaration made no mention of the panamanian turmoil, which began thursday when delvalle ordered noriega to step down from his post as military chief and noriega refused
but foreign minister german nava carrillo of venezuela made an indirect reference to noriega, saying that in a democracy ``the military must be obedient to civilian power.''
foreign minister julio londono paredes of colombia, who did not mention panama specifically, said democracy has suffered a blow in latin america
the ministers' statement recognized ``the value of the contribution to the peace process'' that president oscar arias of costa rica made with a peace plan signed last aug. 7 by the five central american presidents
but the statement said fighting continues, countries are building up armaments and ``destabilizing actions and violations of international rights'' occur
sources close to the foreign ministers told the associated press that the reference to destabilizing actions and violations of international rights was a reference to u.s. aid to the nicaraguan rebels known as contras
the sources, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the ministers expressed concern in their talks about alleged cuban support of salvadoran rebels. but the final declaration made no mention of cuban involvement in central america
according to u.s. officials, there are some 8,000 soviet bloc and cuban personnel in nicaragua, including about 3,500 military and secret police. more than 40,000 people have been killed in the 6-year-old civil war
el salvador claims that cuba is supporting salvadoran rebels with aid coming through nicaragua
referring to negotiations between the nicaraguan government and nicaraguan rebels, the formal statement said that for the talks to succeed there must be no interference from outside central america
the statement urged developed nations to contribute emergency aid to central american countries
president raul alfonsin said friday that agricultural subsidies by the united states and the european economic community have cost argentina $12 billion since 1980
you have forgotten the developing world,'' alfonsin told the cairns group of 14 food-exporting nations on the last day of a three-day meeting
the agricultural subsidies create economic and social unrest that endangers the political stability of some countries, alfonsin said
alfonsin criticized trade proposals by the united states and european common market countries to begin reducing farm subsidies as too little and too late
he said he didn't believe a u.s. proposal to eliminate farm subsidies over 10 years ``can be considered definite,'' and the eec proposal to limit grain production to 160 million tons is about the same grain production figure as last year
the cairns group ``has the central object of eliminating that arsenal of protectionist measures that distorts foreign trade in the field of agriculture,'' the president said
the group takes its name from the australian coastal city where the first ministerial-level meeting of the organization was held in august 1986
it issued a closing declaration outlining its hopes for a strategy to reduce trade protectionism. the declaration will be introduced at the meeting of the general agreement on tariffs and trade group next month
the cairns group also agreed to meet again in december in toronto
also calling for the reduction or elimination of agricultural trade protectionism was grains minister charlie mayer of canada. trade ministers mike moore of new zealand and michael duffy of australia made similar declarations earlier at the meetings
the nations in the cairns group are argentina, australia, brazil, canada, chile, colombia, fiji, hungary, indonesia, malaysia, new zealand, the philippines, thailand and uruguay
only fiji among the 14 did not send a representative to bariloche, a mountain resort 1,000 miles southwest of buenos aires. dayton</head>
minority students occupying a hampshire college office vowed friday to continue the four-day sit-in through the weekend, while university of dayton students held the president's office in a protest against cia recruiting
the hampshire college students were attempting to pressure the private school in amherst, mass., to do more to promote racial harmony
anita fearman, a spokeswoman for the 40 students who took over an office in a dormitory tuesday, said discussions with college president adele simmons have been cordial, but she saw no quick end to the standoff
the students' demands include funding and a full-time coordinator for their activities on behalf of minority students, hiring of an administrator for multicultural affairs, a policy statement condemning racism and amnesty for the protest
the administration has offered us $25,000 to reorganize and make fundamental structural changes in the social fabric of the college,'' ms. fearman said. ``it's going to take a lot more money than that and we know they have the resources.''
simmons has said some of the demands, such as a policy on racial harassment, have been in the works for several months. about 100 of the college's 1,100 students are minorities
in dayton, about 50 members of plowshares for peace and the democratic socialists of america took over the outer office thursday of brother raymond l. fitz, the roman catholic school's president, and demanded a one-year moratorium on cia recruitment
the number had dwindled to 27 by friday, university spokeswoman teri rizvi said
the students who remained were charged with disruption under the student conduct code, ms. rizvi said. penalties could range from a fine to expulsion, and will be determined by a student-faculty panel, she said
fitz met with the protesters for 1{ hours friday and said he would discuss their demands with administrators and faculty
schuerman told the protesters later: ``whatever the resolution is, it's not going to hinge on whether you stay here or leave.''
last week, students at the university of massachusetts occupied a building for six days to protest racial violence at the campus. the siege ended with an agreement on such demands as increased resources for third world programs
a 79-year-old man was charged with attempted murder friday after he stormed into a retirement home that had evicted him for being a troublemaker and opened fire, wounding four people, police said
william h. ``shorty'' cox was ordered held on $250,000 bond in the shootings. police said cox burst in during a board meeting thursday
he picked out the people he felt had done him wrong and began firing,'' police spokesman dee anderson said
four people suffered minor gunshot wounds and a fifth, willie joe wright, 67, suffered a heart attack and was listed in critical condition friday at arlington memorial hospital
cox had lived in the home for 22 months but was evicted in september for `violent acts,'' including shoving others and using profane language, said sam hilburn, president of the home's board of directors
i heard the rounds going off _ ping, ping, ping _ and saw people ducking,'' said pat wilkinson, an electrician who phoned authorities. ``i was still on the phone when he wandered through the office. he said, `go ahead and call the police ... i don't want to get everything blown out of proportion.'''
the home, which houses 140 people, has no security guards. cox entered the board room, where about 15 people were gathered, with a semiautomatic rifle in his hands and another rifle strung around his neck, police said
he said, `i've got a statement to make,' but rambled incoherently,'' said board member charles smith
cox shot once into the ceiling then ``apparently he selected people and shot at them,'' anderson said. ``it was not random shooting.''
cox surrendered to police in a kitchen at the home, anderson said
cox had sued the home, alleging that he had been wrongfully evicted, but the suit was dismissed, hilburn said. news digest: panama city-panama, a0456; moscow-soviet-missiles, a0438; washington-leap day, a0410; cheltenham-eddie the eagle, a0415.</note>
the reagan administration, in a new rebuff to panamanian military strong man manuel antonio noriega, is lending diplomatic support to president eric arturo delvalle in his bid to resist a noriega-led effort to oust him
delvalle was the target of a series of maneuvers that had the earmarks of a military coup after noriega successfully fought off the president's effort to depose him as defense chief
we still regard him as president,'' state department spokeswoman phyllis oakley said friday, hours after noriega's allies in the national assembly voted to remove delvalle from office and to appoint the education minister as president. delvalle called the move ``legally despicable'' and urged a national strike to repudiate noriega's leadership
the democratic presidential candidates put aside their divisions for talk of party unity and a bid for support in the south before going at one another again today in a debate. republican george bush turned up the heat on pat robertson for making ``ridiculous'' allegations about him
the democrats were meeting in a debate in atlanta as they point toward the super tuesday primaries across the south and elsewhere that will decide more than one-third of the nominating delegates and propel at least some of the candidates on to the next round in big industrial states
some of the democratic candidates planned to participate in a 1{-mile march today through downtown atlanta to call attention to the problem of homelessness
palestinian moderates boycotted a meeting with secretary of state george p. shultz, who asked for their support of his peace plan to end clashes in the occupied lands, where four more arabs were killed
opportunity knocks loudly at your door,'' shultz said friday night in the floodlit courtyard of an east jerusalem hotel after the palestinians failed to show up
the army on friday detained four soldiers who had been filmed beating and kicking two bound arabs
a last-minute plea by gov. evan mecham's new defense team failed to win a delay in his impeachment trial as the arizona supreme court refused to intercede
the four justices who heard his appeal for an emergency stay friday cited constitutional separation of powers in refusing to intervene in the trial scheduled to begin in the state senate monday
however, they said they would consider a more detailed request during the court's regular conference tuesday
remember edb? four years after the grain fumigant was banned as a possible cancer risk amid panic over contaminated popcorn, breakfast cereal and muffin mix, the public has nearly forgotten it
judy heckman, chief of pesticide disposal for the u.s. environmental protection agency, hasn't. heckman plans to fly to texas to preside at the burning of the last 330,000 gallons of the pesticide early next week
the edb, or ethylene dibromide, to be incinerated was taken from a warehouse and put on a train in liberty, mo., that left last week for an industrial park in deer park outside houston. more trains will leave with the remaining gallons every monday until june, officials said. news digest: panama city, panama _ panama; tegucigalpa, honduras _ honduras; damascus, syria _ shultz; jerusalem _ israel-violence; nicosia, cyprus _ iran-iraq; eagan, minn. _ northwest strike; undated _ political rdp; atlanta _ democrats debate.</note>
associated press=
washington (ap) _ president reagan will join nato leaders this week at a summit designed to cement the solidarity of the 16-nation alliance and strengthen his hand for arms-control bargaining with soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev
early tuesday morning, reagan will board air force one and fly to brussels, belgium, for two days of talks beginning wednesday with the heads of state or government of the western alliance. the meetings at nato headquarters will be the organization's first full-scale summit in six years
with the exception of an opening statement the first day and closing remarks on thursday, all of the sessions will be in private
the white house cleanup crew was at work once again last week, attempting to clarify remarks president reagan made at his wednesday evening news conference
the president's comments were only the latest in what is an increasingly bulging file of eyebrow-raising statements he has made at news conferences over the years. the gaffes have ranged from erroneous economic statistics to misconstrued versions of events around the world
at wednesday's session, reagan remarked that palestinian unrest in israeli-occupied territory has been caused by ``outsiders coming in.''
democrats are vowing to continue the fight for campaign spending reform that led to a 53-hour filibuster last week, possibly by introducing a constitutional amendment that would allow congress to set federal limits
we must not and we will not give up this fight,'' sen. david boren, d-okla., said saturday in the weekly democratic radio address
this issue simply does not grab the headlines, like a foreign policy emergency or a financial crisis. yet it is just as serious,'' said boren, a principal author of the scuttled bill that would have set voluntary limits
a memo central to independent counsel james c. mckay's investigation of attorney general edwin meese iii has also provided an intriguing new lead for iran-contra prosecutor lawrence e. walsh
the sept. 25, 1985 memo was written to meese by his old friend, e. robert wallach, about a proposed middle east oil pipeline. wallach accurately describes israel's help in arranging the u.s. arms-for-hostages swap with iran just 10 days earlier. and that swap is central to walsh's probe
the memo provides the first link between the pipeline affair and the iran-contra episode, and may provide clues to the motivations and knowledge of key players in each. and it is likely to provoke yet another appearance by meese before walsh's grand jury
fed-bashing has long been a favorite election-year pastime for parties occupying the white house. but this year, federal reserve chairman alan greenspan injected a new element: he bashed back
greenspan has signaled to the reagan administration in no uncertain terms that it should quit leaning on the central bank to ease interest rates
the fed chief, in remarks that surprised some fed watchers for their directness, even went a step further, suggesting that such white house pressure could backfire _ and result in a tighter credit policy
after 2{ years of fighting, leora white has abandoned the legal battle that began when her husband was killed in the fiery crash of delta air lines flight 191, which claimed 137 lives in all
i just said i want to stop. it would've been at least two more years,'' she said. ``life goes on and i needed the money. they can outlast me.''
two months ago, she dropped her appeal seeking more than the $1.1 million a jury awarded her for the death of her husband, ronald
since mid-1985, top leaders of the united democratic front have been facing treason charges in a trial viewed as a likely prelude to a ban on the nationwide anti-apartheid coalition
last week, the government decided not to wait for a verdict
it banned all the group's activities and imposed severe restrictions on the few coalition leaders still free. most of the 18 groups banned from political activity last week were affiliated with the front
once an industrial workhorse known for sweat, smoke and steel, pittsburgh has emerged as an architectural ``jewel'' worthy of a crown, urban experts say
the crown in this case belongs to britain's prince charles, who will serve as honorary chairman of this week's remaking cities conference
i wouldn't have held the conference if the prince had not come because the prince is the only world leader who is speaking out on this issue consistently,'' said david lewis, a pittsburgh architect who's organizing the international symposium
the mexican government is creating what it says will be the world's largest wildlife preserve to safeguard the gray whale, which migrates to the baja california coast each year
it is the longest journey of any mammal, from the waters of northern seas off alaska to the lagoons of mexico to give birth and then mate each winter
mexican officials say the land and sea ``reserve of the biosphere'' is necessary to protect the whales and other species from the effects of development and overzealous tourists, as well as to provide facilities for scientists to carry out their studies
when explorer bartholomew gosnold visited this small island off the massachusetts coast in 1602, he named it in honor of his daughter and the grapevines he found growing abundantly on its open land
today undeveloped land on martha's vineyard is increasingly scarce, and an overwhelming majority of the resort island's residents are demanding a halt to rapid growth they say is stripping the island of its character and straining its police, hospital and other services
at one time, it was natural graces that brought people to the island. now that is being supplemented by the fact that this is also attractive as a straight out-and-out investment,'' said walter renear, chairman of the tisbury town planning board
patricia rossi had thought that as administrative assistant to the chairman of the rhode island public utilities commission she was familiar with telephone companies and their rates
but she was surprised and outraged when she was billed $5.78 for a two-minute phone call from st. petersburg, fla., to her home in providence, r.i., by a company she had never heard of
when i saw this, i said what's going on? their rates are triple at&amp;t rates,'' said ms. rossi. ``but it wasn't just the money. i thought someone should explain'' why the call hadn't been handled by american telephone &amp; telegraph co., whose credit card number she gave the operator and whose price for the call would have been less than $2, she said
the company that handled the call was central corp., based in fort lauderdale, fla., one a few dozen ``alternative operator services,'' or aos, companies that are raising concerns among federal and state regulators because of an increasing number of consumer complaints of price-gouging
the companies are providing operator services to hotels, hospitals, universities and private pay-phone vendors in a $7 billion a year market that until recently was handled almost entirely by at&amp;t
aos companies blame the complaints primarily on billing errors, and they say theirs is a young and growing industry that customers haven't gotten used to yet
we deserve some of the criticism,'' said lester freeman, president of central. ``we've had a shrt but precipitous learning curve. we've made a lot of mistakes, but we've done a lot right, too.''
at an establishment served by an aos company, callers who dial ``0'' for an operator are routed to the aos. an operator gets billing information and then sends the call over a line the aos leases from one of the long-distance carriers
many of the callers who get connected to an aos company are those using a credit card issued by a local bell operating company or at&amp;t, since those cards require callers to start by dialing ``0.'' aos companies say their operators identify their companies and that callers can request that they be transfered to an at&amp;t operator at no charge
callers using other a card from another long-distance company dial a local or 800 number to reach their network, bypassing aos operators
the problem is that people are just dialing as they historically have done and their call is being intercepted and they don't realize what's happening'' until they receive the bill, said j. alan taylor of the florida public service commission
the federal communications commission, with control over the interstate long-distance telephone industry, has authority to regulate resellers who buy and sell time from long-distance carriers like at&amp;t, mci communications corp. and us sprint communications co. but the fcc has not set limits on aos rates
we're looking into the service as a whole,'' said kathie kneff of the fcc's telephone enforcement division, which received its first complaint about an aos company six months ago and now has about 80
jeffrey sklaver, a consultant at mclean, va.-based telestrategies inc., said aos companies are posing ``an interesting problem to the fcc because no one has ever charged more than at&amp;t. all the resellers were in business to charge less than at&amp;t.''
the fcc can fine aos companies that don't answer consumer complaints, but ms. kneff said the companies generally have been responsive. most consumers, like ms. rossi, who have complained to the fcc about an aos bill have received refunds, ms. kneff said
in florida, the public utilities commission is considering requiring aos companies to charge rates no higher than those allowed for at&amp;t
tennessee regulators are proposing to prohibit the local phone companies from providing billing services for aos companies that charge rates higher than at&amp;t's
the virginia utilities commission in january advised consumers calling from hotels, hospitals and pay phones to ask operators what company they work for and how much they charge
if it is not the long-distance phone company with whom you normally do business, the commission warns that you are dialing at your own risk,'' the commission told consumers
gabe battista of national telephone services, an aos based in rockville, md., rejects charges of price-gouging, saying his company is trying to compete with at&amp;t in price and quality of service. he declined to release the company's rates, but said its charges for a call are usually within $1 of at&amp;t's price for the same operator-assisted call
central's freeman said regulatory efforts to tie aos long-distance rates to those of at&amp;t are unjustified
the traveling public does not expect to pay the same for a long-distance call from a hotel as they do at home,'' he said, adding that at&amp;t's rates are not ``sacrosanct.''
aos companies, less than 2 years old, found their niche in the market after at&amp;t stopped paying commissions to hotels on the long-distance calls made by their guests
these companies now are offering 15 percent and 20 percent commissions to attract that business, along with hospitals, universities and pay phone vendors
callers generally can make credit card, collect and third-party billed calls through an aos company. bell phone company cards are accepted since the aos companies have billing agreements with the bell companies, and some companies accept mastercard, visa and other credit cards
the aos' charge for the call is then included in the caller's local phone bill, though it appears on a separate page with the aos company's name
thirty-one years ago, brigitte bardot wrapped her voluptuous body in a sheet, tantalizing moviegoers around the world who flocked to see france's new ``sex kitten'' in the film made by her director-husband, roger vadim
the film, ``and god created woman,'' became a movie classic, launched bb's career and defined the tone and content for the director's subsequent films
vadim has gone back to the same title for his latest film, which has little in common with the 1956 version except a continuing fascination with freedom, sensuality and bourgeois morality
if this sounds a bit pedantic, remember that vadim is the filmmaker who gave the world the avant-garde sci-fi romp ``barbarella'' starring his young, blond wife, jane fonda
his films are never short on beauty, especially the blond, blue-eyed kind. vadim has cast his 26 movies with women ranging from elegant catherine deneuve, his third wife, to earthy angie dickinson, and from intellectual jeanne moreau to sexpot susan sarandon
for the new ``and god created woman,'' which opens this month in the united states, vadim chose blond rebecca demornay, whose previous credits include playing the saucy strumpet opposite tom cruise in ``risky business'' and the angelic girl next door in ``the trip to bountiful.''
people tell rebecca that she has never looked more beautiful than in this film,'' said vadim, the gallic svengali, as he relaxed in a borrowed paris apartment after a morning of television interviews. ``but it wasn't intentional. i make people look beautiful, i can't help it
you wouldn't ask rodin to make an ugly sculpture, or me to make a film with an ugly woman. that's my style, that's my nature.''
bardot played a woman who marries a man in order to escape an orphanage, only to fall for the man's younger brother, played by jean-louis trintignent. although in the end she remains with her older husband, the film is an exploration of sexual freedom
i wanted to show a normal young girl whose only difference was that she behaved in the way a boy might, without any sense of guilt on a moral or sexual level,'' vadim said. ``there was really nothing shocking in what brigitte did, what was provocative was her natural sensuality.''
vadim said sexual liberty is taken for granted now and women in the 1980s are fighting for freedom of a different sort. he said he didn't want to remake his earlier film but wanted to illuminate the problems faced by a modern, young woman
women now seek the freedom to be themselves, to be successful in work without renouncing old-fashioned romanticism. women want to keep what they have gained without giving up those romantic ideas which are very nice in life,'' said the 60-year-old vadim, who looks more like a french lawyer in his gray slacks and navy pullover than an international film director
the film, shot in santa fe, n.m., tells the story of a young, female prisoner who meets a carpenter working at the jail and marries him as a way to show she is a stable candidate for parole
her husband is nice, but chauvinistic, and the film follows their relationship to an ``optimistic end, where they can stay together without her giving up herself.''
vadim moved to malibu, calif., after his divorce from fonda and rented a house across from her so the two could share in the raising of their daughter. he also has children by deneuve and his second wife, annette stroyberg
during the interview, he talked about the movie industry and said his counterparts in french film lack the professionalism that characterizes hollywood. he pointed out that 1987 was one of the worst years in a decade for box-office receipts in france, while the opposite was true in the united states
french filmmakers are beginning to realize they have to try harder, put more thought and effort into their films and make them more international,'' he said
vadim has been asked by several paris producers to shoot his next film in france and is considering making a science-fiction film or suspense thriller here in english
but you know i've never had great luck in france. when `and god created woman' was released the critics were horrible, especially to brigitte who they said couldn't act,'' he said. ``of course she couldn't, but she had another quality, she was and is inimitable, unique.''
after the film was an international success, the french critics changed their minds, he said
i am sure that these same critics will aggress my new movie, saying, `how can you touch such a classic, french masterpiece?'''
if the hopes of many wall street analysts are borne out, corporate takeovers will provide an important source of support for the stock market all through 1988
in just the first two months of the year, the pot has kept bubbling with bids for the likes of sterling drug, federated department stores and stop &amp; shop
brokers like these stories because they have enlivened what has otherwise been a very sluggish and scared stock market in the aftermath of the crash last fall
when one company in a given industry _ for example, addison-wesley in publishing _ receives a bid, other stocks with similar businesses tend to attract speculative buying
but beyond the windfalls takeovers can produce for holders of an individual stock, analysts see these deals as positive for the overall market outlook
for one thing, they say, the activity suggests that a fair-sized number of presumably sophisticated people view american stocks as attractively priced
furthermore, takeovers can have a sort of echo effect. when the holders of a company that is acquired get paid off, they are likely to reinvest the proceeds in other stocks
the takeover game is going like gangbusters,'' observed jay donnaruma, an analyst at first albany corp. in albany, n.y. ``apparently everyone wants to `make a deal' before the environment in washington changes and becomes less friendly
the takeovers do create more money to go into stocks, and that's a positive for the near future.''
joseph feshback, technical analyst at prudential-bache securities, cites takeovers as one reason why he thinks a dramatic rise in the stock market ``could occur any week now.''
this is the final year of an administration that has been very accommodating to takeovers,'' he says. ``if takeovers proceed at a very rapid pace, they will put a huge supply of liquidity into the system
by my rough calculations, as much as $20 billion could be injected back into the system this year. most of this should eventually find a home in the equity market.''
stocks struggled to make much headway in the past week. the dow jones average of 30 industrials edged up 8.62 to 2,023.21
the new york stock exchange composite index gained .74 to 147.70; the american stock exchange market value index rose 4.07 to 284.23; and the nasdaq composite index for the over-the-counter market increased 6.28 to 363.40
volume on the big board averaged 191.09 million shares a day, against 160.98 million the week before
the merits and demerits of takeovers, of course, have been hotly debated for years. one question many observers are asking these days: how many american assets do we want to sell to foreign investors to help finance our habit of consuming beyond our means?
nevertheless, it appears to be a fact of life at the moment that the depressed dollar in foreign exchange is attracting foreign buyers to u.s. businesses
some see buying by corporations, either domestic or foreign, as preferable to the formerly fashionable leveraged buyout, in which big investors used huge amounts of debt to acquire businesses
however they are conducted, mergers and acquisitions tend to reduce the supply of stock available in the marketplace
and if you take the simple economics 1 view that prices of stocks are determined by supply and demand, a shrinking supply becomes a force working in favor of higher prices

base price: $15,200
as tested: $15,419

type: front-engine, front-drive, 5-passenger compact sedan
engine: 2 liter, electronic fuel-injected four cylinder
mileage: 25 mpg (city), 30 mpg (highway)
top speed: na
length: 179.1 inches
wheelbase: 102.4 inches
curb wt.: 2,663 lbs
assembled by: honda, marysville, ohio
options on test car: no added cost options

delivery charge: $219
the value of newly started construction fell 8 percent in january from the previous month, led by a steep drop in non-residential buildings, a construction research concern said sunday
the f.w. dodge division of mcgraw-hill information systems co. said the latest decline continued a downward drift from highs reached last august
the report said the annualized value of new construction contracts fell to $228 billion in january from $247.3 billion in december 1987
on a seasonally adjusted basis, contracts for non-residential building tumbled 16 percent to $75.6 billion, residential construction fell 3 percent to $110.4 billion and public works construction fell 4 percent to $42.0 billion
january's contracting data reinforced the downward trend of new construction activity which has been developing since the fall,'' said george a. christie, vice president and chief economist for f.w. dodge
he said construction contracting has fallen on a month-to-month basis in three of the past five months since reaching an august peak of $273.1 billion
contracting for new construction is viewed as a leading indicator of spending and employment throughout the construction industry
christie said a decline in january's contracting for non-residential buildings reflected a bigger than expected decline in the commercial construction market
it's been a tough winter especially throughout the south where starts were weak, so part of january's steep fall may have been weather related,'' he said. he said he expected non-residential contracting ``will be ratcheting its way down over the rest of 1988.''
non-residential construction also includes buildings for industrial, manufacturing, educational, religious and recreational puposes
the decline in residential contracting reflected stability in one-family home building and continued declines for apartments and hotels, the report said. dodge expects total housing starts will fall 5 percent in all of 1988 to 1.525 million units
the drop in contracting for public works projects and other ``non-building'' construction reflected a stabilization in highway and bridge construction
that figure also includes contruction of dams, sewage and water supply systems, airports and utility and communication systems
the poker-faced federal reserve let the public peek at some of its cards this past week by providing specific clues as to how monetary policy was being played out lately
manuel h. johnson, vice chairman of the fed, confirmed that the central bank was paying closer attention to fluctuations in the dollar, commodity prices and the interest-rate yield curve, or the difference in long- and short-term rates
fed policy in recent years had involved watching a greater variety of economic measures, such as the money supply, which includes cash in circulation, checking and savings accounts and money market accounts
while most fed watchers had been aware of this change in direction for some time _ seeing hints, for example, in minutes of policy committee meetings or from central bank governors _ they were heartened by the fact the fed made this information available to the public
god bless johnson ... because we can all start thinking the same way,'' said william v. sullivan, director of money market research for dean witter reynolds inc. ``the fed has operated in a cloak of secrecy.''
he said ``the new regime seems to be more open'' under chairman alan greenspan than it was under paul a. volcker, who left office last summer
the fed enjoys a certain amount of secrecy,'' said f. ward mccarthy, chief financial economist for merrill lynch capital markets. ``the less the public knows ... the easier it is for it to do its job
but i don't think it's always intentional. i think for a period of time they couldn't decide exactly what was driving monetary policy.''
at a conference sponsored by the cato institute in washington, johnson noted that the relationship between the money supply and the economy has become less predictable in recent years. he admitted that as a result there was always a mystery about what numbers the fed was watching, and that was unhealthy for the credit markets
the value of the dollar, commodity prices and the yield-curve might not be perfect indicators, johnson said, but together they provide a clearer picture of whether the economy is heating up
economists say the fed is likely to keep lowering interest rates to stimulate the economy until the indicators point toward inflation
the credit markets have been closely tracking those same indicators for some time, pushing interest rates higher at the sign of rising inflation and lower with sluggish economic growth
this reaffirms the perception that the markets are the ultimate critic of monetary policy,'' said mccarthy
johnson's remarks this past week means the fed and the credit markets are on the same wavelength, said maria f. ramirez, a top economist at drexel burnham lambert inc., and they also provide a clearer indication as to where rates might be heading
this could reduce volatility'' in bond prices, said sullivan
but carol a. stone, senior economist for nomura securities inc., said, ``it could mean somewhat more volatility because the markets know the fed is looking at particular things,'' and they might overreact
united autoworkers union local 72 filed a lawsuit friday against chrysler corp., alleging the company is breaking federal laws by pulling auto production from kenosha and putting 5,500 people out of work
in reponse, chrysler said a preliminary review of the suit indicated it was ``without merit.''
the suit, which also names as defendants the city of detroit and the u.s. department of housing and urban development, said chrysler obtained about $50 million in federal grants to modernize its jefferson avenue plant in detroit, said james eggleston, an attorney for the union
he said that when chrysler applied for the federal money, the carmaker said it would make mid-sized trucks at the old jefferson avenue plant to keep jobs there during the modernization of the facility
but now the company plans to shift production of the l-body omni-horizon cars to detroit from kenosha, he said. chrysler announced last month it planned to close the kenosha plant by fall
the lawsuit is trying to prevent the use of federal funds to destroy a community,'' eggleston said
the suit was filed in u.s. district court in milwaukee, and it seeks an injunction to force chrysler to keep its plant in kenosha open while continuing its upgrading of the jefferson avenue plant
in its response, chrysler said, ``our lawyers have not had time to thoroughly examine the complaint but based on a preliminary review the lawsuit is without merit.''
the government money is for the new jefferson facility. no government money will be spent at the old jefferson plant where the l-body (omni-horizon) will be produced,'' chrysler said in the statement
bob berg, spokesman for detroit mayor coleman young, said the city has not received formal notification of the lawsuit and would not comment until it was able to examine the filing
chrysler announced late last month the kenosha plant would close
eggleston said $15 million of the federal money came under the urban development action grant program, which he said cannot be used to transplant jobs from one community to another
the remaining $35 million came under a community development block grant, which eggleston said requires an impact study be done by the federal government and detroit. the suit said that the grant was approved without assessing ``the significant adverse effects on the human environment in kenosha.''
chrysler chairman lee iacocca has offered to divert profits from this year's car sales in wisconsin to create a trust fund for the laid off autoworkers. iacocca also said while the automaker may have raised expectations in wisconsin, it made no promises to keep the kenosha plant open
here are some price trends during the past week:
grains and soybean prices were mostly lower at the chicago board of trade
the contract for delivery of wheat in march settled at $3.15\ a bushel friday, down from $3.22 a week earlier; march corn settled at 2.00} a bushel, up a notch over $2.00{ last friday; march oats settled friday at $1.90\ a bushel, down from $1.91} a week earlier, and march soybeans settled at $6.25{ a bushel, down from $6.31
cattle and hog futures prices were mixed at the chicago mercantile exchange
live cattle for delivery in april settled at 72.55 cents a pound, up from 72.37 cents a week earlier; march feeder cattle were 80.72 cents a pound, down from 83.55 cents last friday; april hogs settled friday at 44.30 cents a pound, compared to 45.50 a week earlier; and march frozen pork bellies dipped to 52.10 cents a pound from 53.67 cents
gold and silver prices retreated at the commodity exchange in new york
april gold settled friday at $431.10 a troy ounce, down from $448 a week earlier; and march silver settled at $6.16 a troy ounce, compared to $6.40 last friday
energy futures prices fell in trading at the new york mercantile exchange
april crude oil settled friday at $15.78 a barrel friday, down from $16.48 a week earlier; april heating oil was 43.37 cents a gallon compared to 45.80 cents last friday; and unleaded gasoline dropped to 45.70 cents a gallon from 46.43 cents
final figures likely will show that texas crude oil production fell about 8 percent during 1987, the texas railroad commission reported friday
commission chairman jim nugent said the state's oil production still is suffering from the effects of the 1986 plunge in world oil prices
texas' oil production decline steepened in 1987. final production numbers should show a drop of 60 million barrels, or about 8 percent, from 1986,'' nugent said
a barrel is equivalent to 42 gallons
nugent said the state's daily production rate fell 80,000 barrels a day between january and december 1987
that's not surprising when you look at the number of wells that have been dropped off production over the last two years,'' he said
between the end of 1985 and the fall of last year, we lost production from some 30,000 stripper wells and more than 9,000 of the better-producing wells,'' nugent said
consumer prices, consumer spending and personal income all rose by 0.3 percent in january, while home sales fell for a third consecutive month
the reports friday left the picture of a u.s. economy experiencing continued moderate inflation and weaker growth in spending by consumers
in the financial markets, the dow jones average of 30 industrials rose 5.64 points to 2,023.21, finishing the week with a net gain of 8.62 points. bond prices edged higher and the dollar slipped slightly
the increase in consumer prices in january was about the same rate of inflation as through 1987, but a large decline in energy costs cloaked hefty increases in many other areas
the advance was equivalent to an annual inflation rate of 4.2 percent, according to labor department analysts. that compares to the 4.4 percent actual rate of inflation posted for 1987 and is also in line with the reagan administration's projection of 4.3 percent inflation for 1988
analysts said that many of the price increases may reflect one-time-only increases timed to coincide with the beginning of the year
there were a lot of price increases that come at the first of the year, but i'm not overly alarmed,'' said lawrence chimerine, chairman of the wefa group, a philadelphia-area forecasting service
but donald ratajczak, a georgia state university economist, called the report ``a bit worrisome.''
in another economic reports friday:
_the commerce department said americans' personal incomes and consumer spending both rose at moderate rates of 0.3 percent in january, less than half the 0.7 gains both posted in december. economists expect weakening consumer spending this year as the economy slows down
the gains were taken as positive signs that consumer spending, while not growing as briskly as it did during the early years of the economic recovery, will at least expand enough this year to keep the economy out of a recession
_a real estate trade group said sales of existing homes fell 3.6 percent in january, the third consecutive monthly decline. the national association of realtors said that sales of existing single-family homes were at their slowest pace since june 1985
the association said that consumer fears raised by the collapse of the stock market in october were partly to blame for the slowdown
oil prices continue to be weighed down by an overwhelming mood of bearishness in the market, analysts say
at the new york mercantile exchange friday, contracts for april delivery of west texas intermediate, the benchmark u.s. crude oil, closed at $15.78 per 42-gallon barrel, down 14 cents from thursday
it was the second day in a row that the near-month crude contract closed below $16 since dec. 21, when it settled at $15.16
among march contracts for refined products, wholesale heating oil closed at 45.70 cents a gallon, up 0.48 cent from thursday, while wholesale unleaded gasoline settled at 45.26 cents a gallon, 0.11 cent lower
heating oil was the only bright spot during the day, drawing strong demand because of a perception that inventories are ``relatively low,'' said andrew lebow, an analyst at the shearson lehman hutton inc. securities firm
but he said the prevailing sentiment ``is still bearish,'' adding that he joined other traders in expecting further declines for crude prices next week
john o'dea, manager of international energy futures at dean witter reynolds inc., said his firm shared that view, citing overproduction by opec as ``the overriding issue.''
o'dea said the 13 members of the organization of petroleum exporting countries have been operating on an ``every-man-for-himself'' basis, producing as much oil as necessary for their respective shares of the market, despite slack demand and burgeoning inventories
as a result, he said, this has only increased downward pressure on prices
