more than 150 former officers of the overthrown south vietnamese government have been released from a re-education camp after 13 years of detention, the official vietnam news agency reported saturday
the report from hanoi, monitored in bangkok, did not give specific figures, but said those freed friday included an ex-cabinet minister, a deputy minister, 10 generals, 115 field-grade officers and 25 chaplains
it quoted col. luu van ham, director of the nam ha camp south of hanoi, as saying all 700 former south vietnamese officials who had been held at the camp now have been released
they were among 1,014 south vietnamese who were to be released from re-education camps under an amnesty announced by the communist government to mark tet, the lunar new year that begins feb. 17
the vietnam news agency report said many foreign journalists and a delegation from the australia-vietnam friendship association attended the nam ha release ceremony
it said lt. gen. nguyen vinh nghi, former commander of south vietnam's third army corps, and col. tran duc minh, former director of the army infantry officers school, expressed ``gratitude to the government for its humane treatment in spite of the fact that most of them (detainees) had committed heinous crimes against the country and people.''
the prisoners had been held without formal charges or trial since north vietnam defeated the u.s.-backed south vietnamese government in april 1975, ending the vietnam war
communist authorities had called the prisoners war criminals and said they had to learn how to become citizens of the new society
small numbers had been released occasionally without publicity but the government announced last year that 480 political prisoners would be freed to mark national day on sept. 2
on thursday, vice minister of information phan quang said 1,014 would be released under the tet amnesty
he reported a total of 150 prisoners would remain in the camps, which he said once held 100,000
depending on their repentance, they will gradually be released within a short period of time,'' quang said
he said many of the former inmates would return to their families in ho chi minh city, formerly the south vietnamese capital of saigon
the amnesties apparently are part of efforts by communist party chief nguyen van linh to heal internal divisions and improve vietnam's image abroad
the ripples from the iowa precinct caucuses are spreading to new hampshire, boosting winners and damaging losers in the final days before the nation's first primary, polls indicate
vice president george bush, who was slipping in new hampshire even before his third-place iowa finish, lost more ground in polls this week. democratic third-place finisher michael dukakis also lost support, but not as much
iowa, meanwhile, has boosted the candidacies of rep. richard gephardt of missouri and sen. bob dole of kansas, the democratic and republican winners, and has aided pat robertson, iowa's surprise second-place republican finisher, the polls indicate
as recently as two weeks ago, bush commanded the new hampshire gop field. a cbs news-new york times poll in the last week of january had him 22 percentage points over dole, the same place he'd held in polls since november and earlier
but a crack appeared last week, when an abc news-washington post poll found bush's lead sharply diminished, to 7 percentage points. after iowa's vote monday, abc found the spread down to 4 percentage points: bush, 33, dole, 29
in a poll with an error margin of 6 percentage points, that amounted to a dead heat. another survey, done for the boston globe this week by pollster gary orren, had essentially he same result: bush 29, dole 27. cbs on thursday had it as bush 35, dole 27 _ still a big drop for the vice president
dole got a very big kick out of iowa; more than that, there is some reluctance in the support for bush,'' orren said thursday. ``he's shown vulnerability, and that's sort of arousing doubts people have about him.''
the unanswered question is how far bush will fall,'' richard morin, polling director for the washington post. ``the expectation is that he will continue to drop. that's been the clear direction.''
if voters were leaving bush before iowa, it was not clear where they were going, morin said. this week the chief gainers turned out to be dole and robertson, whose support was up to 10 percent in the abc and cbs polls, from 6 percent last week and 4 percent two weeks ago
rep. jack kemp of new york held steady at 13 percent in the abc poll, and fell from 16 percent to 12 percent in the cbs poll. analysts said he now may be challenged by robertson for third place in new hampshire
kemp was gaining last week. iowa ended that,'' said morin
iowa's effect on the democratic race probably is in the battle for second place, not first, pollsters said. massachusetts gov. dukakis, despite finishing third in iowa, maintained a strong lead in new hampshire _ but he no longer had the huge 49 percent support indicated in an nbc-wall street journal poll in november
three polls indicated a drop in support for dukakis, to 36 percent in the abc-post survey this week from 41 percent last week; to 35 percent in the globe's survey, from 38 percent last week; and to 38 percent in the cbs poll, from 40 percent in late january
a fourth new poll, however _ done for wbz-tv in boston, wrc-tv in washington and the boston herald _ said dukakis' support had risen from 36 percent at the end of january to 44 percent this week
it's a big lead for dukakis no matter whose poll you're looking at _ and a strong one, too,'' said jeff alderman, chief of polling for abc news. he said 58 percent of dukakis' backers told abc they supported him strongly
the win in iowa transformed gephardt, who had single-digit support in new hampshire as recently as last month. the cbs poll had him at 19 percent, up from 7 percent in late january; abc's poll put him this week at 22 percent, up from 13 percent last week. the globe had him at 18 percent, up from 8, and the wbz poll had him at 17, up from 8 last month
poll results were more mixed on gephardt's chief rival, sen. paul simon of illinois, the second-place finisher in iowa. he moved to 18 percent from 13 percent in abc's poll, to 13 from 11 in wbz's and fell in the globe's, to 12 from 17. he held about even in the cbs poll, at 15 percent this week
movement is taking place at the bottom as well as the top of the pack. former sen. gary hart of colorado, who had 11 percent in the wbz and globe polls last week, fell to single-digit support after winning just 1 percent in iowa. hart and former arizona gov. bruce babbitt, also a poor finisher in iowa, went from 7 percent in abc's new hampshire poll last week to 4 percent this week
the parents of a student slain when he apparently stumbled onto a reputed mexican drug lord's party have dropped a $2 billion lawsuit against the man, saying a trial would rekindle painful memories
alberto radelat, a dental student, and journalist john walker were tortured and killed in february 1985 in guadalajara, mexico, and authorities there said they believed the men were executed because they were mistaken for drug agents
on jan. 29, dr. felipe radelat and his wife, ana, filed a wrong death action against reputed drug lord rafael caro quintero, whom authorities have blamed for the deaths
the younger radelat and walker had apparently entered a restaurant where quintero was holding an after-hours party
a witness told the radelats that their son and walker were stabbed with icepicks and switchblades before they were dumped in a crude grave outside guadalajara, where their bodies were found in june 1985
on thursday, radelat said he dropped the suit a week after filing it because it would revive memories the family had tried to put behind them
my wife had settled down, and this brought it all up again,'' he said. ``we don't want any more bad memories. it was a sad experience. i hope no one ever has to go through it.''
quintero was among nine people indicted jan. 6 by federal officials in los angeles in connection with the deaths of drug enforcement administration agent enrique camarena and his pilot, who were killed about a week after radelat and walker were slain
quintero is in a mexican jail charged with all four deaths; u.s. authorities indicted him and the others in camarena's death in an effort to bring them to justice if mexican authorities don't prosecute them
radelat said he filed the lawsuit because the u.s. government had not indicted quintero in the other deaths
we were disappointed they (u.s. officials) indicted quintero just for the drug agent, not the other americans,'' radelat said. ``we wanted to do this (suit) not so much for the money but just to do justice for our son.''
price supports for peanuts grown under 1988 quotas will be $615.27 per ton, an increase of $7.80 from last year, the agriculture department said friday
deputy secretary peter c. myers said the increase was required by a formula in the law which takes rising production costs into consideration
the annual quota is set at a level equal to the estimated quantity of peanuts that will be needed for domestic edible uses, seed and related purposes
production of non-quota peanuts, which can be grown for peanut oil and meal, and for export, will be supported at $149.75 per ton, unchanged from last year, myers said
in setting the support for non-quota peanuts, officials are required to consider certain factors, including the demand for oil and meal, the expected prices for other vegetable oils and meals, and the foreign demand for peanuts
the end was bitter, his helmet dented from the combat of the campaign, and true to form, retired four-star gen. alexander m. haig jr. reined in his dark horse quest for the presidency in a pugnacious mood
haig made clear that his new objective was not to seek the keys to the white house for himself but to deny them to vice president george bush
from the very beginning, when he announced, ``i'm throwing my helmet into the ring,'' the 63-year-old former secretary of state never rose above the low single digits in public opinion polls
he stopped campaigning in the iowa caucuses in frustration that his message and his personality had not taken hold
this is hangover day,'' haig said, when the iowa votes were counted and he ended up with less than 3 percent of the vote in the gop field
throughout his campaign, haig described himself as ``the darkest of dark horses.''
his political picture never brightened, perhaps because he failed to find a way to do what he himself said he had to do to win
i've learned the secret of life ... it's in marketing,'' haig told a denver audience early in the campaign
and that's what i'm trying to do today _ marketing.''
after iowa, haig had trouble finding a silver lining
i'm in it to the bitter end and that bitter end may be the inability to raise enough money to stay in it,'' he said
haig has been supreme allied commander in europe, and white house chief of staff as well as secretary of state and presidential contender
in all of those roles, he demonstrated a vivid _ sometimes pungent _ grasp of the english language
when his hopes for iowa were still high, haig told audiences: ``i think it's important that a city slicker like al haig, who's been abroad and lived in our nation's capital perhaps too long, doesn't come out here and tell agricultural experts how to suck eggs.''
complaining about the reagan administration's supply-side economic policies, he said they bore the mark of ``ideological religiosity.''
he himself described some of his more obscure references and word combinations as ``haigspeak.''
haig sensed a measure of public reluctance to put a former four-star general in the white house and his first television commercials were designed to counter that
one listed the names of the dozen generals who have served as president, asserting that none of the nation's eight wars began in their administrations
`ive led troops in battle, seen the horror of war, i know the imperative of peace,'' the former general said, asserting the need to elect a president with ``strength, skill and understanding.''
he said the idea of a nuclear-free world is ``bizarre,'' asserting that soviet nuclear weapons can only be detered by other nuclear weapons, not eliminated
when the stock market crashed last october, haig said washington had sown the seeds of disaster
overnight the famous bull market of the eighties was eaten alive by the most infamous bear market in our financial history,'' he said, attributing the market's nose dive to ``a pervasive lack of confidence in our government's ability to deal with budget and trade deficits.''
bush was a preoccupation for much of the haig campaign
haig tried repeatedly to pin down the vice president on what advice he gave to reagan in the iran-contra scandal
were you in the cockpit,'' haig said in typically colorful language, ``or were you on an economy ride in the back of the plane?''
a court ruled friday that an egg producer who kept his 2,000 hens in small cages was not guilty of cruelty to animals, as alleged by animal rights activists
the verdict is a great relief. it would have been too much to be found guilty of cruelty to my 2,000 hens,'' karl wettre was quoted as saying by the national ntb news agency after his acquittal
the national society for the prevention of cruelty to animals claimed that by keeping hens in small cages, wettre violated national legislation to allow animals' natural development and behavior
but the court found that wettre observed norwegian regulations stipulating that a hen should have at least 112 square inches of cage space in which to live
nspca chairman toralf metveit was quoted as saying: ``i'm disappointed but not surprised.''
the society was ordered pay $15,600 in court costs
strategists for jack kemp's presidential campaign say george bush's poor showing in iowa, coupled with kemp's tough-talking ads against bob dole, could put kemp in the running for the republican nomination
before last monday's iowa caucuses, kemp had been on a roll in new hampshire, using an effective advertising campaign and the endorsement of the influential concord monitor to help broaden support
but even as his bid to become the conservative alternative to dole and bush took shape, the new york congressman faced the possibility of being swept out of the race by former television evangelist pat robertson
using his second-place finish in iowa _ kemp came in fourth _ robertson was trying to move kemp aside and take the mantle of true conservative. a poll of new hampshire voters by the boston globe thursday night indicated robertson had drawn even with kemp among potential republican voters in next tuesday's primary
charles douglas, kemp's new hampshire campaign manager, says the buffalo congressman wants to finish second or third in a cluster with bush and dole
we want to be in the 28-30-31 percent range with them,'' douglas said
he conceded that kemp cannot afford another fourth-place finish, saying, ``we need to do well here so we can raise money and continue on to the south. we need to have at least a close third here.''
kemp spent most of the week in new hampshire making his case at coffee klatches, before high school students and in speeches to the party faithful. he is hopeful that his energetic person-to-person style and strong conservative message will make him the conservative alternative
john buckley is kemp's chief campaign strategist
what you saw tonight,'' buckley said after kemp spoke before 800 republicans in nashua earlier this week,``was kemp making an appeal to the heart and soul of the reagan vote in new hampshire. we consider that to be the largest single vote in the republican primary electorate.''
buckley said bush's third-place finish in iowa presented kemp with a new hampshire opportunity he never thought he would see
it was a lucky break that the guy who got severely wounded in iowa was george bush, (someone) we never thought we could beat in the new hampshire primary.''
kemp's strategy had focused on dole because, as buckley put it, dole is ``extraordinarily vulnerable in new hampshire because of his predilection for raising taxes, his four different positions on oil import fees and his wanting to cut social security in a state that has an elderly, republican electorate.''
we learned a lesson last month in iowa,'' buckley said. ``the news media was interested in bush-dole, dole-bush, bush-dole, almost as if they were the only two variables
the lesson was that by being very specific on issues in a tough, hard-hitting way, we could pry the door open to get people to take a look at kemp.''
robertson is now running ads in new hampshire saying he is the best alternative to bush and dole and noting that he has already beaten kemp
but buckley says robertson can't repeat his showing in iowa because of an inherently negative message that won't be effective in new hampshire
for all the voters who may be more comfortable with the gloom and doom and dour message of pat robertson, that we're going to hell in a handbasket, there are many more who will respond to a positive conservative message,'' buckley said
i'm a conservative,'' kemp told a living room full of republicans in milford. ``but i'll tell you what, folks, some things need money spent on them. we've got to shelter the homeless; we've got to feed and clothe and take care of people who can't take care of themselves ... and we've got to have a strong defense.''
a chartered plane crashed into the snowy flank of a volcano in southern chile, killing all seven people aboard, air force rescue officials said friday
the chartered, two-engine piper seneca ii was reported missing late wednesday, after taking off from temuco, a city 415 miles south of santiago
rescue helicopters were unable to find and reach the crash site, on the villarica volcano about 60 miles south of temuco in the andes mountains, until friday noon
the crew and passengers died in the accident,'' said a communique issued by the air force's rescue service
santiago television stations broadcast images of the crash site which showed the plane's charred remains strewn across an icy slope 6,900 feet above sea level
the victims were francisco comandari, president of a santiago-based bank, banco del pacifico; his 13-year-old son and a 12-year-old daughter; the bank's general manager, eran fernandez; his wife and 1{-year-old son; and pilot juan bernstein, son of a well-known chilean diplomat
the cause of the crash was under investigation
about 90 soldiers have been arrested and face possible death sentences stemming from a coup attempt in bophuthatswana, leaders of the tribal homeland said friday
rebel soldiers staged the takeover bid wednesday, detaining homeland president lucas mangope and several top cabinet officials for 15 hours before south african soldiers and police rushed to the homeland, rescuing the leaders and restoring them to power
at least three soldiers and two civilians died in the uprising
bophuthatswana's minister of justice g. godfrey mothibe told a news conference that those arrested have been charged with high treason and if convicted could be sentenced to death. he said the accused were to appear in court monday
all those arrested in the coup attempt have been described as young troops, the most senior being a warrant officer
during the coup rebel soldiers installed as head of state rocky malebane-metsing, leader of the opposition progressive peoples party
malebane-metsing escaped capture and his whereabouts remained unknown, officials said. several unsubstantiated reports said he fled to nearby botswana
warrant officer m.t.f. phiri, described by mangope as one of the coup leaders, was arrested friday in mmabatho, capital of the nominally independent homeland, officials said
bophuthatswana, which has a population of 1.7 million spread over seven separate land blocks, is one of 10 tribal homelands in south africa. about half of south africa's 26 million blacks live in the homelands, none of which are recognized internationally
hennie riekert, the homeland's defense minister, said south african troops were to remain in bophuthatswana but will not become a ``permanent presence.''
bophuthatswana's foreign minister solomon rathebe defended south africa's intervention
the fact that ... the south african government (was invited) to assist in this drama is not anything new nor peculiar to bophuthatswana,'' rathebe said. ``but why south africa, one might ask? because she is the only country with whom bophuthatswana enjoys diplomatic relations and has formal agreements.''
mangope described the mutual defense treaty between the homeland and south africa as ``similar to the nato agreement,'' referring to the atlantic military alliance. he did not elaborate
asked about the causes of the coup, mangope said, ``we granted people freedom perhaps ... to the extent of planning a thing like this.''
the uprising began around 2 a.m. wednesday when rebel soldiers took mangope and his top ministers from their homes to the national sports stadium
on wednesday evening, south african soldiers and police stormed the stadium, rescuing mangope and his cabinet
south african president p.w. botha and three of his cabinet ministers flew to mmabatho late wednesday and met with mangope, the homeland's only president since it was declared independent in 1977
the south african government has said, without producing evidence, that the outlawed african national congress may be linked to the coup
the anc, based in lusaka, zambia, dismissed the claims and said south africa's actions showed that it maintains tight control over the homeland governments. the group seeks to topple the pretoria government
the african national congress and other anti-government organizations consider the homelands part of an apartheid system designed to fragment the black majority and deny them political rights in south africa
a senior panamanian diplomat broke with his country's military-dominated government friday, declaring he could no longer in good conscience serve a regime stained by ``corruption, illigitimacy and dishonesty.''
lawrence chewning fabrega, minister counselor at panama's mission to the organization of american states here, told a news conference his decision to resign was triggered by a speech he was ordered to give at an oas ceremony on wednesday
chewning had said in the speech that the reagan administration was attempting to overthrow the panamanian government and was waging a campaign of ``moral and economic aggresion'' against panama
these remarks were not written by me, nor did they represent the way i feel or think,'' chewning said, adding that they were prepared by panama's ambassador to the oas, roberto leyton, and the panamanian foreign ministry
chewning's resignation followed an extraordinary week in which panamanian strongman manuel antonio noriega was indicted by two federal grand juries in florida on drug-related charges and was accused by former associates before a congressional panel of engaging in an array of corrupt activities
speaking through a translator at oas headquarters, chewning said: ``my conscience, my dignity and my deep religious beliefs prevent me from continuing to be used as an instrument of a government characterized by corruption, illigitimacy and dishonesty.''
panama's oas mission had no statement on chewning's resignation, and ambassador leyton was not available for comment. gabriel lewis, a former panamanian ambassador who has been lobbying in washington against noriega's rule, said chewning's resignation proves there are ``worthy individuals'' in the panamanian government who refuse to continue supporting noriega
chewning said he did not resign on the day of the oas ceremony because he felt it was inappropriate, given the nature of the event. the occasion was the formal incorporation of west germany into an international agreement designed to guarantee the neutrality of the panama canal once the waterway comes under panamanian control in the year 2000
in his speech wednesday, chewning had said the united states, in pursuing a hostile attitude toward the panamanian government, was attempting to evade its treaty pledge to relinquish control over the canal
on friday, he said he believes the united states will faithfully comply with its commitments
chewning said he was not seeking political asylum in the united states and was confident he would not be the target of reprisals by the panamanian government
he will be ineligible to remain in this country because his visa allowing him to remain here is valid only so long as he maintained his status as a diplomat. he said he has about a month to decide what to do in the future
chewning, 46, served in the oas post for a year and a half. he previously had worked in panama's foreign ministry, its embassy in belgium and its embassy in washington accredited to the u.s. government
he and his wife are expecting their fourth child
pete du pont, struggling to keep his presidential candidacy alive in the final days before the new hampshire primary, lashed out friday at fellow republicans bob dole and jack kemp
at a news conference in this snowbound city, du pont said: ``what bob dole says seems to depend on what state he's in.'' he also called kemp ``a big spender.''
with the departure of alexander haig from the republican presidential race on friday, du pont, a former governor of delaware, ranks at the bottom of the five-candidate field
he conceded that to stay in the race after tuesday's primary ``you have to do well. you have to start beating somebody.''
du pont had kind words for haig, a former secretary of state, calling him ``a credit to this process'' and saying ``he brought a little spice to the debate.''
but he had no kind words for anyone else
asked about his prospects, du pont said, ``all of new hampshire's in flux now that the vice president is in a free fall.''
vice president george bush's standing as the clear front-runner among new hampshire republicans has eroded since his embarrassing third-place finish in the iowa precinct caucuses on monday
du pont called the upcoming days ``the four most volatile of this campaign.''
focusing on dole, du pont said, ``i don't think you can go to iowa and talk to farmers about how many dollars you've appropriated and then come to new hampshire and avoid it.''
he also said the kansas senator had told iowans that he would not pledge to oppose any tax increases and then came to new hampshire and said he would veto a tax increase. new hampshire voters have a reputation for solid opposition to tax increases
du pont also said that dole had supported an import fee on foreign oil in iowa but ``in new hampshire he says he'll veto it.''
as for kemp, a congressman from new york, du pont said, ``he's a big spender. in fact he's got a spending record in the congress that is even more liberal than pat schroeder (a democratic congresswoman from colorado) or paul simon (the illinois senator who is running for the democratic presidential nomination).''
so, i don't think on tuesday the people of new hampshire are going to fall for a snow job,'' he said.   
president hussain muhammad ershad said friday he was saddened by the violence in this week's local elections that left at least 100 people dead, but he added he was heartened by a heavy voter turnout
in a message released by the official bangladesh news agency, ershad said he was sorry at ``the loss of valuable lives and injuries caused to a number of people in some isolated incidents of violence.''
at least 100 people were killed and hundreds injured in clashes among supporters of rival candidates on wednesday
the voting was to elect representatives to more than 4,370 village councils
opposition party leaders sheik hasina and khaleda zia have blamed ershad for the violence and accused the government of failure to maintain law and order
the women have led a series of strikes and protests since nov. 10 to try to oust ershad
hasina, daughter of assassinated president sheik mujibur rahman, and mrs. zia, wife of another slain president, have called for general strikes saturday and sunday to protest the violence and renew the call for ershad's resignation
ershad on friday appealed for ``tolerance and patience'' to make the process of democracy a success
the enthusiasm and spontaneous participation of the people in the polls was the manifestation of peoples' firm confidence in the constitutional process and democratic norms,'' ershad's statement said
according to government reports, voter turnout was as high as 80 percent in areas where there was no violence
poling was postponed in at least 2,500 of 21,000 voting centers because of election-day clashes. a new date for polling had not yet been set
the list of successful candidates is expected to be ready in about a week, government officials say
ershad, 58, assumed power in a bloodless coup in 1982. he won election to the presidency in 1986 in balloting the opposition contends was rigged
in an effort to appease the opposition, he dissolved parliament and called for new elections feb. 3. the opposition called for a boycott, contending the balloting would not be free and fair. father</head>
the son of a man who lived nearly 40 years in the united states and then died in a yugoslav prison after being convicted of nazi war crimes challenged u.s. officials friday to admit they wrongly extradited his father to a communist court
rad artukovic, in a 135-page report submitted to the justice department, said the department used fraudulent evidence to send his father, andrija artukovic, to face a ``sham trial'' in yugoslavia two years ago
the elder artukovic died last month at age 88 while awaiting execution in a yugoslav prison
the only way the u. s. government could get him was through fraud,'' artukovic told a news conference before leaving for los angeles to join a federal courthouse vigil in honor of his late father
he said his father has become a hero to people from his native croatia, now a part of yugoslavia
andrija artukovic, who was a cabinet minister in the nazi puppet state of croatia, was called ``butcher of the balkans'' by the yugoslav government and accused of ordering the deaths of thousands of people. during his trial, he was described as as overseer of a grisly network of concentration camps
rad artukovic, 39, said his father was minister of the interior, had no military responsibilities and ordered no deaths
he said his father was not mentally competent to stand trial. u.s. officials had declared him senile and legally blind when he was extradited
tom stewart, spokesman for the justice department's criminal division, said a copy of artukovic's report had been received by the office of special investigations and was being reviewed by investigators who handle allegations of war crimes
he's done a marvelous job of defending his father's reputation, but the matter was dealt with in the courts,'' stewart said
artukovic said in the report that both his father's extradition and the trial in zagreb relied mainly on false testimony from bajro avdic, a man who claimed to have been a military escort for his father
the report said avdic was not an escort and was not in the places he claimed to be when atrocities allegedly occurred. it also claims he made up the killings attributed to artukovic
i ask the justice department to go into court and revoke the order they obtained through fraud,'' artukovic said, accusing u.s. officials of collusion with the communist government in yugoslavia
artukovic said he hopes for a renunciation of the extradition to invalidate the yugoslav trial
artukovic said he and two of his four sisters visited their father during his imprisonment in yugoslavia but his mother, ana, never saw her husband after he was extradited. the family lives in seal beach, calif. his father for many years had been a bookkeeper for a los angeles construction company
the younger artukovic, a stock trader, said he worked for two years to research the report on what he said was false evidence against his father and is sending copies to members of the senate judiciary committee and the senate foreign relations committee
he said the justice department went along with whatever was given it by the yugoslavian government but could not collect enough evidence to deport his father
artukovic said yugoslavia accused his father of war crimes to neutralize him as a croatian political leader. he said most other members of the croatian wartime cabinet were executed as war criminals but allied officials found no evidence against him and he was allowed to live freely in ireland and later the united states
slippery, ice-covered roads and snarled traffic helped four people escape from a man who abducted them at gunpoint and took their cars, police said friday
larry f. johnson, 43, of logansport, ind., was arraigned on four counts of kidnapping in warren district court after his arrest in the cases early friday. he was being held without bond in the warren county jail, police said
he also was wanted in georgia, south carolina, tennessee, indiana and kentucky on various charges, including assaulting a police officer in georgia, kidnapping, theft and drug-related charges, said trooper jackie strode
johnson was traveling on foot and was not armed when he was arrested, strode said
strode said erwin quirand, of knoxville, tenn., and a 17-year-old girl from sumter, s.c., jumped from a northbound car thursday on interstate 65 while traffic was slowed past the site of a multi-vehicle car-truck pileup in which one person was killed. they ran to police and said they had been kidnapped
quirand said he had been kidnapped him and his car taken wednesday at a knoxville, tenn., grocery store. he told wbko-tv in bowling green that his abductor said he was ``running for his life.'' the juvenile said she and her car were taken tuesday
the man sped away but crashed the car four miles north of the accident scene, strode said
the man then stopped a pickup truck driven by daniel eidson jr., 18, of bowling green, and asked eidson and his passenger, greg bell, 21, of richardsville, for a ride to get a wrecker
but when they pulled into a service station, eidson said, the man pulled out a gun and said: ``i'm in a little trouble with the law. keep going.''
the man then took the wheel but slid off an icy road into a ditch, eidson said
the three walked to a house and the man tried to persuade someone there to give him a ride to nashville, but was turned down, eidson said
he said the three then went to the home of susan and gary comer, where the man asked to borrow their tractor to pull the truck out of the ditch
mrs. comer refused, eidson said, and the gunman then demanded her car and ripped a telephone cord out of the wall
i told them the keys were in the car,'' mrs. comer said
her car slid off another road, and bell and eidson escaped while pushing it out of a ditch, eidson said
the gunman later wrecked that car and police lost his trail until running across him early friday about six miles south of bowling green, strode said
he had been described by indiana authorities as suicidal and wanting vengeance against police officers, strode said
eidson said he was afraid during the incident
i didn't really know'' what the man would do, he said. ``but he had a gun, you know, and he kept pulling it out.'' massacre</head>
a court on friday convicted fugitive guerrilla leader abu nidal and two of his palestinian followers in the 1985 grenade and rifle attack that killed 16 people in a crowd of holiday travelers at rome's airport
abu nidal and another fugitive, rashid el-hamieda, were sentenced to life in prison. the only defendant in custody, mahmoud ibrahim khaled, was given a 30-year term
more than 80 people were injured in the dec. 27, 1985 assault on the check-in counters of twa and the israeli carrier el al at leonardo da vinci airport
four americans were killed, including an 11-year-old girl on a trip with her family to new york
el-hamieda, described as a top lieutenant in abu nidal's fatah revolutionary council, was accused along with abu nidal of organizing the attack. neither he nor abu nidal took part in it
the assault occurred at the same hour as a similar strike at vienna's airport, also blamed on abu nidal's followers
four people, including two terrorists and an american, died in the vienna attack, and 47 people were injured. two surviving palestinian terrorists were convicted of murder by a vienna jury and sentenced to life in prison
the rome jury of two judges and six civilians apparently heeded a plea for leniency for khaled, the only survivor of the four-man commando team. he could be released on parole in a little less than 15 years
earlier in the day, his court-appointed lawyer said he could not possibly ask for acquittal for the 20-year-old khaled, who admitted his guilt
instead, the lawyer, epifanio ales, reread for the jury khaled's own statements about his childhood in a refugee camp in lebanon, his parents' death in an israeli bombing and his taking up of arms when he was 10 years old
khaled was ``a patriot who wanted a palestine free of the israelis,'' ales said in his plea for mercy
the lawyer asked the jury to remember that italian courts, for years, were merciful to men who had killed adulterous wives and their lovers under a now vanishing ``crime of honor'' standard
ales said defending the confessed terrorist was ``an anguished task'' and that it was particularly painful to listen to the testimony of an american journalist about how his daughter, 11-year-old natasha simpson, died in the gunfire
victor l. simpson, news editor for the associated press in rome, described in court how he threw himself and the girl to the terminal floor in a futile attempt to shield her from the bullets
according to the trial indictment, four israeli security guards fired back, killing three of the four members of the attack squad and wounding khaled
the steel-barred holding cage for khaled was empty on friday. he chose to stay in his prison cell, exercising his right under italian law not to attend his trial. he only attended court dec. 15, the trial's opening session
the trial was based largely on hours of pre-trial statements by khaled, who told investigators that the terrorists were trained in lebanon's syrian-controlled bekaa valley and took their orders from headquarters in damascus, the syrian capital
investigators believed el-hamieda provided the terrorists with their weapons and gave them final instructions during several meetings in rome, then checked out of a hotel and fled italy at virtually the same hour the raid was launched
prosecutor francesco deleo had requested conviction and life sentences for the three defendants, saying khaled's statements made clear the airport strikes were linked to several terrorist attacks in europe this decade
italy does not have capital punishment
abu nidal's group has been blamed for more than 100 attacks across europe, asia and the middle east since 1972
he split from yasser arafat's palestine liberation organization in 1973
an international arrest warrant has been issued for abu nidal, whose real name is sabri al-banna
abu nidal is a nom de guerre which means ``father of the struggle.''
he originally based his group in syria but was expelled and is believed to operate out of lebanon, with his followers trained in libya
lawyers for both fugitive defendants asked the jury for acquittal for lack of evidence. they said they would appeal the verdict
khaled's lawyer said he had not yet decided about an appeal
all three defendants were charged with massacre and with illegal possession of arms
about 15,000 reservists, civilian militia, police and regular army troops will take part soon in civil defense and military maneuvers, the sandinista newspaper barricada announced friday
barricada said the civilians and military personnel will participate in the exercises in managua and its surrounding region. it did not specify on what day they would begin
the maneuvers come at a time of high tension in the city of masaya, about 20 miles southeast of managua, where demonstrators opposing the government's obligatory military draft clashed with sandinista supporters and police on monday and tuesday
club-wielding sandinista demonstrators first sought to quash the protests in the streets. police later intervened to break up the demonstrations, and interior minister tomas borge arrived to monitor the situation
the exercises ``are of a routine nature and are called for under the annual plans to prepare the people in defense,'' barricada said. it added that participating sandinista police would patrol ``centers of greater criminal incidences.''
the regional committee of the sandinista national liberation front, the government party, told barricada the maneuvers would involve peasant militia, factory and neighborhood reservists and mass organizations
neighborhood sandinista defense committees and sandinista youth organization members also will take part
sandinista army troops staged maneuvers at the same time last year, but few civilians participated
borge referred indirectly to the masaya demonstrations thursday, saying he had instructed sandinista police to act ``with profound respect for the physical integrity of those who provoke them, but at the same time with energy and without vacillation in order to impede vandalism and disorder in the country.''
empty bullfrog county, created from scrubland in a bid to assure the state of federal dollars should the government build a nuclear dump in nevada, violates the state constitution, a judge has ruled
judge david zenoff said thursday the county stretched its legal limits ``every which way,'' and left too many constitutional issues ``hanging in the air.''
nye county, from which unpopulated bullfrog county was carved, had challenged the 1987 legislature's creation of the state's 18th county
zenoff, a former state supreme court justice brought in to hear the case, issued the ruling after less than 30 minutes of oral arguments in district court
zenoff said the governor's authority to appoint three commissioners for the county ran ``contrary to the democratic process,'' and contributed to its failure to provide representative government
i cannot in good conscience uphold this law,'' he said
obviously, we're very pleased,'' said nye county district attorney phil dunleavy. ``it confirms what we've been saying all along. as far as i'm concerned, bullfrog county is dead and it should be.''
attorney frank daykin, representing the legislature and bullfrog county, said it would be up to the legislative commission to decide whether to appeal zenoff's ruling to the state supreme court
the commission's next meeting is scheduled for wednesday
we usually don't accept defeat in the legislature,'' said commission chairman lawrence jacobsen
legislators created the county out of a 144-square-mile chunk of nye county as a way of giving the state control over federal funds available for the proposed. yucca mountain in southern nevada is one of three sites under consideration
had bullfrog county been selected, the u.s. government would have had to compensate the state-run county an estimated $8 million to $25 million a year, officials said
personally, i hope the legislature doesn't appeal it because it's brought enough embarrassment to nevada and should be allowed to lay in peace,'' dunleavy said. ``the legislature needs to rethink its approach to the problem.''
nye county stands to lose revenue should the new county remain on the books
gov. richard bryan, who signed the law creating the county into effect, issued only a brief statement upon learning of zenoff's decision
this apparently resolves the bullfrog county issue unless the legislature chooses to appeal,'' he said
karen zupon, the governor's press secretary, said bryan ``has always said he'll abide by the court's decision. he's not a party to the suit and he hasn't said anything about whether he thinks it should be appealed.''
nye county challenged the county's creation on 37 different legal grounds in a 92-page brief. its major complaint was bullfrog county's failure to provide representative government
zenoff agreed, saying it was not ``answerable to the people.'' among other things, he said the law made no provisions for a judicial district or legislative representation for the county
secretary of state george p. shultz will go to the middle east in two weeks to try to promote two-stage negotiations between israel and jordan on palestinian self-rule
a brief state department announcement friday said shultz would make the trip at the end of the month ``for the purpose of advancing the middle east peace process.''
other u.s. officials said he would set out for the middle east about 24 hours after returning from feb. 21-23 talks in mosocw and visit egypt, jordan, israel and possibly saudi arabia
shultz plans to remain in the area until he joins president reagan for a summit meeting with the leaders of the 15 north atlantic treaty organization countries in brussels beginning march 2
the soviets have been notified in advance that shultz intends to sound out foreign minister eduard a. shevardnadze about an international peace conference that would be a backdrop for arab-israeli negotiations
their moscow talks will center mostly on prospects for a treaty to sharply reduce u.s. and soviet long-range nuclear missiles and for a withdrawal of the red army from afghanistan after an occupation of more than eight years
israeli prime minister yitzhak shamir and shultz have registered their reluctance to having the soviets play a prominent role in a middle east settlement. but jordan's king hussein wants the participation of all the big powers, including moscow
according to u.s. and other sources who declined to be identified, shultz will advance a two-step plan that would open negotiations in april between israel and a mixed jordanian-palestinian delegation and then resume in december to work on an overall middle east settlement
all options, including statehood for the palestinians, would be open at that point
shultz reaffirmed monday night in a meeting with american foreign policy experts that the u.s. approach to a final settlement is based on israel trading territory for peace
that could cause severe political problems for shamir because many of his supporters are against relinquishing land the arabs lost to israel in the 1967 six-day war
at the same time, the united states has not endorsed palestinian statehood. president reagan's formula, outlined in a 1982 speech and still u.s. policy, proposed linking the west bank and gaza to jordan
reagan said flatly that the united states ``will not support the establishment of an independent palestinian state'' in the territories and would also ``not support annexation or permanent control by israel.''
shultz's trip is designed to show a commitment to aiding the 1.5 million palestinian arabs who live on the west bank and in gaza and to ending violence in the israeli-held territories
sources said shultz's overriding goal was to promote negotiations between israel and the arabs, possibly in the framework of a mideast peace conference
they stressed that the framework was incidental to holding direct talks on the palestinian issue and that all approaches to getting the two sides to the table would be considered
the peace conference idea has drawn objections from shamir, but it has the support of israeli foreign minister shimon peres, and possibly king hussein
on his last visit to the region in october, shultz said he understood why shamir would be reluctant to hold negotations in a way that gave the soviet union a chance to play an influential role
the soviets generally side with the arabs in their dispute with israel and do not have diplomatic relations with jerusalem
about 96 percent of the residents of the west bank and gaza are palestinian arabs. jewish settlers who were banned from the west bank during jordan's control from 1948 to 1967 have established villages, religious schools and synagogues there
hussein has accused the reagan administration of being hopelessly one-sided toward israel. but a recent u.s. diplomatic emissary, philip c. habib, was reported to have detected a ``positive'' attitude in talks with the king in amman
assistant secretary of state richard w. murphy returned from the middle east on thursday and reported to shultz on his meetings with leaders of syria, saudia arabia, egypt and israel, as well as with british and french officials
the roman catholic relief agency caritas italiana said friday it has raised more than $10 million to help the victims of the african drought
the charity said $5.5 million of the $10.3 million total had been sent to support the people in ethiopia's eritrea and tigre provinces until fall
the organization said in a statement that it raised the money during its ``drought in africa'' campaign, and that it was donated by private citizens, workers groups, churches and by religious and public charities
besides the money already sent, the relief agency has allocated another $1.98 million for directing the second phase of its program in ethiopia, eritrea and tigre
it also said it is preparing to send $3.4 million for relief efforts in mali, mozambique, southern sudan, angola and burundi
the government should ease back on acreage controls for the 1989 wheat crop, the national association of wheat growers said friday
frank johannsen, association president, said greater acreage should be permitted so the united states can keep filling a growing export demand. for the last two years, wheat farmers have been required to idle 27.5 percent of their base acreage in order to qualify for federal supports
the agriculture department is to announce the 1989 wheat program by june 1. johannsen, a wheat farmer from bayard, neb., said the association wants the acreage reduction be held to no more than 20 percent
johannsen said u.s. wheat stockpiles are expected to drop by 30 percent this season, the largest annual decline in more than 20 years
a 1989 acreage reduction of less than 20 percent could be justified if usda maintains its current export subsidy programs, he said
since we don't know what will happen after the november elections, our market outlook is somewhat cloudy, thus making it more difficult to forecast export sales opportunities,'' johannsen said in a statement. israeli union threatening boycott; subs grafs 19-20 pvs, `antonis dalakogiorgis, ...,' with 5 grafs to update with comments from union leader. picks up 21st graf pvs, `shipping sources ...</note>
a member of israel's parliament arrived in athens on friday to join palestinian deportees in a planned voyage back to israel, but two organizers said they still had not obtained a ship
the president of greece's main seamen's union, meanwhile, said israeli agents had used threats and pressure to block the plo-sponsored trip that would carry 130 palestians deported by israel to the israeli port of haifa
union leader antonis dalakogiorgis also revealed that the israeli sea officers union had warned they would boycott greek vessels if greek seamen continued backing the plo effort
the ``journey of return'' is designed to focus attention on israel's use of deportations to punish palestinians in the territories it captured in the 1967 arab-israeli war
parliament member mohammed miari appeared at a news conference at an athens hotel alongside bassam abu sharif, the chief spokesman for plo chairman yasser arafat
miari, a member of the left-wing progressive list for peace, said he was told that ``the israeli government will put on trial all those who participate in the trip,'' and said there were moves in parliament to strip him of his parliamentary immunity
two other parliament members, tawfiq zaiad and charlie biton, were among 11 israelis who arrived thursday in cyprus to join the voyage when it stops there. about 20 israelis plan to make the trip
the trip is modeled after the voyage of the exodus, which tried to take jewish refugees to palestine in 1947 but was turned back by british authorities. miriam algazi, one of the israelis who arrived in cyprus on thursday, also took part in the exodus voyage
at the news conference, miari backed ``the right of the deported palestinians people to return to their homeland.''
he said he hoped the trip would ``open a new window for just peace in the middle east.''
but there was increasing doubt that any ship would be able to sail soon, although the plo has gathered hundreds of deportees, observers and journalists in athens and cyprus to take part
two members of the nine-member voyage steering committee in athens told the associated press that the plo did not have a firm contract to charter a vessel because several companies had backed out of tentative commitments
we don't have a boat yet,'' said abdul-jawad saleh, the deported mayor of the west bank town of bireh
there is not a concrete ship as of this moment,'' said another member of the steering committee who insisted on anonymity
the voyage was initially scheduled to start on tuesday, but the plo diplomatic representative in athens, fouad al-bittar, said thursday the voyage had been delayed because ``many'' shipowners had backed away from contracts
however, he then promised that the voyage would begin by early saturday morning from greece's main piraeus harbor, saying a boat had been found
we are still insisting that the boat will sail,'' abu sharif said friday. he reaffirmed the time schedule given by bittar, but added an element of uncertainty
i'm sure we will find _ and have found, according to mr. bittar _ a brave captain'' for the voyage, he said
piraeus harbor authority officials said at noon friday the plo had not submitted documents legally required 24 hours before a ship can be brought in or out
dalakogiorgis, president of the panhellenic union of merchant seamen, said that ``israeli agents'' had threatened greek shipping companies and individual seamen about the voyage
seamen working on ships that the plo might have chartered received telephone threats from the israelis and shipping companies were also under intense pressure from them,'' dalakogiorgis said
i personally received threatening phone calls, threatening my life, not to proceed with this,'' dalakogiorgis said
dalakogiorgis distributed copies of a telex from the israeli sea officers union saying ``we would have no choice but to boycott greek vessels in israeli ports'' if the voyage goes as planned
no one from the israeli union, headquartered in haifa, could be found for comment friday
shipping sources in piraeus, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the captain of the first ship chartered to make the voyage had also been threatened
they said that zannes kouloumbis of the maltese-flagged silver paloma was warned of an israeli attack during the voyage and told his life was in danger
the ship's owners, who operate a regular ferry service to israel, dropped out
two u.s. navy warships, under orders to assert international navigation rights, were deliberately bumped by two soviet warships on friday after moving within 12 miles of russia's black sea coastline, the pentagon said
no one was injured and damage to the two ships was described as light
but the administration immediately lodged a strong protest with the soviet ambassador here, saying the vessels had done nothing provocative and were operating in accord with international law
as secretary of state (george p.) shultz said just a week ago, we are prepared to deal with the best and worst of soviet behavior,'' said rudolph boone, a state department spokesman
we intend to continue exercising our rights under international law. the soviets are obligated to comply with their international commitments.''
navy officials said during a pentagon briefing there was no question that the cruiser uss yorktown and destroyer uss caron had been struck deliberately by a soviet frigate and a smaller coastal patrol boat, respectively
the soviet warships broadcast a warning beforehand, saying they were authorized ``to strike your ship with one of ours,'' said capt. gerry flynn, a top aide to the chief of naval operations
the two soviet ships then closed almost simultaneously on the american vessels, ``which were, as we would say in the navy, shouldered out of the way,'' flynn added
the yorktown and caron maintained their course and speed despite the bumping, eventually steaming farther from the soviet coast, flynn said
the latest report i have now is that both ships are operating routinely in the black sea as planned,'' he said
flynn and other pentagon officials said they could not recall a similar incident of deliberate bumping during operations in the black sea. the soviets strongly protested a similar deployment by the same two ships in march 1986, but did nothing at the time to physically interfere with their passage
the soviet union claimed friday the u.s. navy ships violated its border, ignored warnings ``and dangerously maneuvered in soviet territorial waters.''
it was a routine passage and we were doing nothing provocative at all ...,'' flynn countered. ``we view (this) with considerable concern.''
according to cmdr. richard schiff, a navy lawyer who appeared with flynn, the yorktown and caron were operating off the crimean peninsula in what the navy calls its ``assertion of rights'' program _ an effort to periodically steam through contested waters to emphasize freedom of navigation on the high seas
unlike the united states, which claims a three-mile territorial limit, the soviet union claims a 12-mile limit along its coast, schiff explained. the united states will accept such a claim, but any country claiming 12 miles ``must allow for innocent passage by the ships of all nations,'' he said
the soviet union tries to insist that foreign ships stick to specified sea lanes when making an innocent passage, something it has no right to do, the lawyer said
so what our ships were doing there was exercising that right of innocent passage,'' schiff said. he noted that soviet intelligence-gathering ships routinely operate within five miles of the u.s. coastline
according to the pentagon, friday's incident began with the yorktown and caron steaming eastward, parallel to each other and about three miles apart, past the crimean peninsula. the caron was about seven miles off the shoreline and the yorktown about 10
the two ships had been shadowed by three soviet vessels and soviet reconnaissance aircraft ever since entering the black sea through the turkish straits on wednesday
at about 11 a.m. local time friday _ or 3 a.m. est _ flynn said the soviets broadcast the following warning to the u.s. ships: ``soviet ships have orders to prevent violation of territorial waters. i am authorized to strike your ship with one of ours.''
the caron responded: ``i am engaged in innocent passage, consistent with international law.''
when neither the caron or yorktown changed course, a krivak-class frigate moved up on the yorktown and a mirka-class patrol vessel moved on the caron, ``grazing'' the left sides of the each, flynn said
american naval forays into the black sea _ each of which must be approved by the president _ are normally ordered at least once a year for two reasons, said pentagon officials who asked not to be named
the navy ships are expected to monitor soviet military operations, frequently employing electronic listening gear, and to assert the right of u.s. warships to navigate through those waters
the soviet union considers the black sea as its own ``lake'' _ even though it is only one of several nations bordering the sea's waters _ and maintains a large naval fleet there
according to boone, undersecretary of state michael armacost called in soviet ambassador yuri dubinin friday morning to ``lodge a strong protest.''
defense secretary frank c. carlucci, who is scheduled to meet with his soviet counterpart next month, also intends to protest the russian action, boone said
the kremlin accused the u.s. state department on friday of spreading ``malicious slanders'' about human rights in the soviet union and said the united states has violations of its own
the official news agency tass carried an interview with alexei glukhov of the foreign ministry in which he discussed the state department's annual report on human rights around the world
the report, released wednesday in washington, said the soviet government gave its people greater freedom and showed more tolerance toward dissenters in 1987. but it said an all-powerful secret police force remained unchecked
tass said the report ``again contains malicious slanders against the socialist countries, including the u.s.s.r.''
glukhov, first deputy head of the foreign ministry's directorate for humanitarian and cultural issues, accused the state department of making the allegations to speed up ratification of the intermediate-range nuclear weapons treaty, which is making its way through the senate
president reagan and soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev signed the treaty in december
the soviet union, glukhov noted, conducted a prison amnesty and introduced new rules on emigration and immigration last year. the state department ignored these steps and relied on faulty information for its report, he charged
much of the specific information contained in that report is clearly drawn from unclean sources,'' he said, citing what he said was an exaggerated figure of 400 political prisoners in the u.s.s.r
obviously, the u.s. state department again lacks simple objectivity and simple truthfulness in the evaluations,'' he said
the soviet union would like to know why the united states has political prisoners, sentences minors to death and prosecutes clergymen for anti-war activities, glukhov said
the u.s. side is far from the measure of openness and self-criticism demonstrated by the soviet union on that issue,'' he said, referring to human rights
secretary of state george p. shultz and soviet foreign minister eduard a. shevardnadze are to discuss human rights at a meeting in moscow on feb. 21-23
nuclear test-ban negotiations, resuming next week in geneva, are making progress toward means of verifying two unratified test ban treaties, the white house said friday
in a statement, spokesman marlin fitzwater said the talks, which begin again monday, ``represent a practical approach _ as the president has long advocated _ to nuclear testing limitations which are in our national security interest.''
fitzwater said the united states and the soviet union agreed in undertaking the talks that the first step should be to negotiate effective verification measures for the threshold test ban treaty and the peaceful nuclear explosions treaty
the two pacts, limiting the magnitude of certain nuclear tests, were negotiated in the 1970s, but ratification has been withheld because of concerns about how soviet compliance could be verified
once our verification concerns have been satisfied and the treaties ratified, we will propose that the united states and the soviet union immediately enter into negotiations on ways to implement a step-by-step program _ in association with a program to reduce and ultimately eliminate nuclear weapons _ of limiting and ultimately ending nuclear testing,'' the spokesman said
we are making progress toward our goal of effective verification,'' he added
with a better understanding of the practical problems associated with conducting these experiments, we now have the information needed to design the experiments,'' fitzwater said
the two sides have agreed to begin this work immediately upon resumption of negotiations on monday. we hope that the sides will continue to make expeditious progress in these talks.''
the statement was released as president reagan arrived in california for a five-day stay
a northwest airlines jet returned to kansas city international airport safely following a collision with two geese shortly after takeoff, a tower official said
the dc-9 hit the geese wednesday after reaching an altitude of 200 feet, said ivan hunt, manager of the kci control tower. the plane suffered damage to its nose cone and windshield, he said
our guess is they were geese,'' hunt said. ``and when it's just two birds like that, they don't show up on radar.''
heavy snow was falling at the time of the accident and the geese were in the clouds, hunt said
northwest officials would not comment
hunt said no one was hurt, adding that the plane was probably never in any danger. money'</head>
a texas prison escapee who robbed a credit union and then killed a policeman during a chase was shot 13 times by officers after his escape was blocked by a television station's helicopter, authorities say
police also said the man, phillip hutchinson, 24, of arlington, va., had listed his goals for february, and at the top of the list was penciled: ``get money.''
hutchinson robbed the credit union tuesday and during the ensuing police chase he ran over and killed detective robert wallis, 51
after running into a tree, he took john laurienti hostage and forced him to drive him in his pickup truck. a kcnc-tv helicopter piloted by mike silva followed hutchinson and blocked his escape in a parking lot, and officers shot him to death in the truck cab. laurienti escaped injury except for a cut from flying glass
the chase and the final confrontation were videotaped by a cameraman riding with silva
adams county sheriff's sgt. fred stoll said that because of the many entrance and exit wounds on hutchinson's body, investigators had difficulty telling how many times he had been shot
but my guess is 13 times,'' he said thursday
according to authorities, hutchinson was a marine deserter with a long criminal record, including escape, robbery, forgery and the ransom kidnapping of a 13-year-old boy, who escaped unharmed
he escaped from texas' ferguson prison unit in september 1984 and was recaptured four months later. in july, while serving a life sentence for aggravated robbery and other charges, hutchinson hot-wired a truck and drove it through a prison fence. he had eluded authorities since then
stoll said police found the list of goals among piles of papers in hutchinson's mountain home near bailey
he was known to write detailed strategies and contingency plans in advance of his crimes, but investigators have not found plans for tuesday's credit union office robbery, which netted $3,000
meanwhile, laurienti, 73, was given a new truck friday to replace the one damaged in the gun battle
the truck was purchased for him by a dealership and kcnc-tv
laurienti had refused to obey hutchinson's order to ram the station's helicopter after silva landed in front of them
laurienti embraced silva when they met for the first time friday, and they discussed tuesday's ordeal
god bless this guy,'' laurienti said. ``he (hutchinson) could have blew my brains out, but i wasn't going to ram this guy.''
sen. bob dole's presidential campaign is wasting no time in trying to lure national convention delegates away from vice president george bush, even though only a handful have been chosen so far
dole's pennsylvania campaign has gone to work on at least some of the 18 delegates who were chosen there last week by the republican state committee, and so far one delegate has been enticed to defect while another is complaining of being harassed
they're after me,'' grace jesberger said friday in a telephone interview from from ridgway, pa. ``i'm just getting a little miffed that people are trying to pressure me.''
the effort has intensified since bush's third-place finish in the iowa caucuses, but francis shane, who leads dole's pennsylvania campaign, said nobody's trying to twist arms
since iowa, ``we're getting calls from people rethinking their positions,'' he said
dole spokeswoman katie boyle said jesberger had been persuaded to switch support to the senate minority leader, but jesberger herself said that's not true
jesberger said she has often indicated that she ``has no problems with dole.'' but she said she was sticking with bush, at least for now, because he is the best qualified candidate
however, dole's campaign did succeed in winning over ronald reese, an insurance adjuster from philadelphia who was a member of bush's state steering committee
reese did not return calls to his office or home friday, but he told the pittsburgh press that he left the bush campaign in part because it was not paying enough attention to black republicans
his defection brought the national delegate count to 46 for bush and 35 for dole. rep. jack kemp has 32 delegates, former television evangelist pat robertson 8 and another 8 remain uncommitted. there are still 2,148 republican delegates to be chosen
geraldine ferraro, whose vice presidential nomination marked a peak for the women's equality movement, said friday that women must translate their increasing power at the ballot box to campaigns for elective office
if you don't run, you can't win,'' ms. ferraro said. ``and just as important, every time a woman runs, women win.''
ms. ferraro addressed some 1,500 women attending a symposium on women and the constitution convened by former first ladies rosalynn carter and lady bird johnson
she said there are more female officeholders than ever, but the numbers are not representative of the population
women are, by any measure, grossly underrepresented in elective office,'' ms. ferraro said. ``i would say shockingly underrepresented; however, nobody is shocked. that's simply how it is.''
coretta scott king, wife of slain civil rights leader martin luther king jr., echoed ms. ferraro in urging women, particularly black women, to seek office
we have a strength and tenacity and a gift for nurturing and compassion which has been finely honed and tempered in our struggle to raise families in a sexist society,'' mrs. king said on the closing day of the two-day symposium
let me put it this way _ if the women of america don't lead the struggle against poverty, racism and militarism, then we must ask, who will?'' she said
according to the national women's political caucus, in 1987 women held 14 percent of the higher statewide elective offices in the country. at the same time, there are only 23 women serving in the house _ and only one black woman _ two female governors and two women in the senate
ms. ferraro, a former congresswoman from new york, said many of those officeholders are not yet in positions of national power or leadership, which she said would likely delay nomination of a woman as a presidential candidate
however, more women will become interested in politics and the numbers elected will increase, she said. ms. ferraro said her 1984 campaign with democratic presidential nominee walter mondale inspired thousands of women to write her and describe how the candidacy inspired them to go to law school, medical school, or run for office
every time a woman runs for any elective office, it's like throwing a stone in a lake,'' she said. ``the ripple effect is felt far beyond the immediate point of impact.''
mrs. king compared the challenge facing women in the workplace and in politics to that faced by blacks during the civil rights struggle led by her late husband. she said women can learn much from the tactics used by blacks to gain rights
the movement showed millions of americans that you can, indeed you must, defy authority when that authority is in the wrong,'' mrs. king said
women have become a distinct and powerful voting group in recent years, ms. ferraro said, pointing to the 1986 mid-term elections that brought a democratic majority to the senate. she said nine democrats won by getting less than 50 percent of the male vote, and more than 50 percent of the female vote
women voted more strongly democratic, and on key issues like peace, disarmament, social welfare and the environment, differently from men,'' she said
ms. ferraro said that after she was nominated for vice president during the 1984 democratic national convention in san francisco, the thousands of joyfully weeping women she saw told her that equality, and a female president, are coming
she will have shown that she possesses the rare combination of qualities the american people look for in a president, and then it will be time. and tears will be cried like you wouldn't believe,'' she said
six people have been arrested in what federal officials say is an international counterfeiting scheme involving thousands of bogus $100 bills, and investigators are trying to determine whether the phony money came from lebanon
the arrests began after an iowa state university student from lebanon, roger youssef el-khoury, 25, was taken into custody by creston police and federal agents following a tip that suspect bills had been received by a grocery and department store in creston
el-khoury was charged with passing and possessing phony u.s. money. federal officials said he had several counterfeit $100 bills in his possession when he was arrested
also arrested during the month-long investigation was kenny neil, 29, who played football for iowa state from 1977 to 1980. neil, who has been working for the iowa department of transportation, was a seventh-round draft choice of the new york jets professional football team in 1981
he was charged with possessing counterfeit money
also charged were daniel lee habhab, 28, a disc jockey at an ames nightclub; his roommate, guy k. sejaan, 26, a lebanese citizen and iowa state student; and two other students, dale bahrenfuss, 24, and dario anthony hutchinson, 29
habhab and sejaan pleaded guilty thursday to charges of possessing counterfeit $100 bills. they have agreed to testify against the other four, officials said
u.s. secret service agent william lenz of des moines said officials do not know where the phony bills were made or how they were brought into the united states. he said investigators are trying to determine whether the money came from lebanon
documents filed in u.s. district court as part of the guilty pleas by habhab and sejaan include an account of sejaan's conversation last year with two cedar rapids men in which they discussed the possible sale of bogus u.s. currency
sejaan said he talked to el-khoury because he knew el-khoury needed money to stay in school. el-khoury told him to get $5,000 in counterfeit money from one of the cedar rapids men, and on jan. 11 sejaan met him in the parking lot of a restaurant, according to the document
the man told sejaan he was giving him $16,000 worth of counterfeit money and wanted 45 percent of the proceeds from the sale. the man also said he expected another shipment of $200,000 in phony money at the end of january
sejaan said he gave el-khoury 10 $100 counterfeit bills and was paid $405. he later gave el-khoury 20 more phony bills and gave habhab, his roommate, 50 of them, according to the documents
assistant u.s. attorney robert teig of cedar rapids would not comment on the allegations against the cedar rapids men. no charges have been filed against them
el-khoury's trial is scheduled for march 7 in u.s. district court
sejaan and habhab will be sentenced on april 22. each could be imprisoned for 15 years and fined $250,000
officials said the counterfeit bills also have been passed at a west des moines drug store and discount stores in indianola and osceola
democrat albert gore jr., campaigning with country music star johnny cash on friday, cited increased violence and suicide among children as he defended his wife's efforts against raw music lyrics
what she has said is parents should be more aware that younger and younger children are targets of increasingly brutal and explicit material,'' gore said
cash, a country performer for more than 30 years, appeared with gore at a small rally in the railroad yard of the virginia museum of transportation and planned to travel with the democratic presidential candidate to new hampshire. but snow in new england forced gore and cash to abandon those plans and return to washington to await better weather
gore, who has campaigned less in new hampshire than most of his rivals while concentrating on the southern primaries, hoped to make it to that state before saturday's democratic debate
cash, wearing his trademark black-only attire, enthusiastically endorsed gore and said his fellow tennesseean was the only presidential candidate he has ever publicly backed
you know, the soviet union has a strong, energetic man,'' cash told about 150 people who stood in sub-freezing temperatures. ``what we need is a strong, energetic, young, brilliant man, and that's what we have in al gore.''
cash's presence prompted numerous questions at a later news conference about gore's wife tipper's work against sexual and violent lyrics in rock music
gore responded by saying there were epidemics of teen pregnancy and suicide and an ``epidemic of violence by children against children.''
in the face of that, i think it's legitimate to ask what is the effect of children seeing 18,000 murders on television by the time they graduate from high school. what is the effect of increasingly explicit material on younger and younger children,'' gore said
i'm very proud of what she has done.''
he said she has never sought to impose censorship but favors voluntary efforts aimed at letting parents know what is contained in the music their children listen to
tipper gore's well-publicized efforts in that cause have brought criticism from some in the entertainment industry. but gore's poll takers and strategists say they find little opposition to his candidacy in the south or elsewhere based on his wife
cash said he saw no point in trying to censor what his child might hear in music, but added, ``i really don't think that tipper gore is advocating that kind of censorship anyway.''
mrs. gore did not accompany her husband but two of their children, albert jr., age 5, and karenna, 14, traveled with him
as gore and cash spoke, norfolk southern freight trains rolled by noisily just a short distance away, prompting gore to call on cash to sing ``a train song.'' cash, a country music performer for more than three decades, complied
virginia's attorney general, mary sue terry, who is expected to run for governor next year, appeared with gore, as did the district's democratic congressman, jim olin, and the city's republican mayor noel taylor
gore blasted president reagan for a lack of leadership on the deficit and the economy. he said that after the stock market drop last october reagan had nothing of substance to say
the president came out of the white house and said, `what?' _ the helicopter engines were going, you know. he said, `they tell me i've got to go,''' gore said. ``well, he's got a point there.''
gore, pinning his presidential hopes on the southern primaries on march 8, contended that massachusetts gov. michael dukakis is unlikely to gain great momentum out of an expected win in new hampshire, before the campaign turns south
it's essentially a two-person race in most of the south,'' he said, referring to himself and jesse jackson
a small chartered plane crashed into the snowy flank of a southern volcano, killing all seven occupants, air force rescue officials said friday
the two-engine piper seneca ii was reported missing late wednesday, after taking off from temuco, a city 415 miles south of santiago
rescue helicopters were unable to locate and reach the crash site on the villarica volcano, about 60 miles south of temuco in the andes mountains, until friday noon
the crew and passengers died in the accident,'' said a communique issued by the air force's rescue service
santiago television stations broadcast footage of the crash site which showed the plane's charred remains strewn across an icy slope nearly 7,000 feet above sea level
the victims included francisco comandari, president of a santiago-based bank, banco del pacifico, his 13-year-old son and 12-year-old daughter; the bank's general manager, eran fernandez, his wife and 1{-year-old son; and pilot juan bernstein
the cause of the accident was being investigated, aviation officials said
a couple whose daughter spurned an arranged marriage and eloped with her cousin allegedly tried to hire a hitman to kill their son-in-law, his sister and mother and send pieces of the bodies to jordan, authorities said friday
dr. saud tarawneh, 46, a gynecologist who became a u.s. citizen in 1980, and his wife, ghada, 44, were arrested thursday on a broward county warrant in toledo, ohio, where they have lived for several years. bond for them was set friday at $1.2 million
according to mike breece, an investigator with the florida department of law enforcement, the couple allegedly tried to arrange the killings to erase the embarrassment from rhana tarawneh's elopement with her syrian cousin in 1984
this would not only help them save face, but elevate the standing of the family in the tribe to an even higher level than it was before the daughter ran away,'' breece said
the lovers fled from jordan and eventually moved to broward county
police were contacted by a private investigator the tarawnehs allegedly asked either to commit the murders himself or arrange for a hitman
tarawneh and his wife were each charged with three counts of conspiracy to commit first-degree murder and three counts of solicitation to commit first-degree murder
the alleged intended targets were their unwanted son-in-law, mouataz abdulsamad, 29; his younger sister, azza; and his mother, najwa, 45
when rhana first fled jordan with her new husband, the family wanted to send her back and sell her into a prostitution ring, authorities said
but as the embarrassment to the family grew deeper, the parents allegedly tried to set up the killings of her new husband and his relatives
the plans included instructions for the killer to to hang all three people, take photographs of the bodies, then cut the mother's tongue out and sexually mutilate the husband and his sister, breece said. instructions were also included on packaging the body parts in formaldehyde for shipment to jordan
breece would not disclose the amount the couple allegedly agreed to pay for the murders
an investigator the parents allegedly tried to hire in early january told authorities about the plot, and agreed to cooperate with the state in its criminal investigation, breece said
after getting court permission for wiretaps, agents taped phone conversations between the investigator and the family, breece said
a state agent and the investigator, who acted as a middle man for a non-existent hitman, met with the doctor and his wife in detroit on feb. 2, breece said
on wednesday, the father ``was told the the murders had been committed and to send his money,'' breece said. ``whether or not he did (send the money), i don't know.''
toledo municipal court judge robert penn continued the case until saturday because the tarawneh's attorney, jeffrey goldstein, was out of town. the couple faces extradition to florida, breece said
acting gov. rose mofford proclaimed a state of emergency friday to free up to $100,000 so the national guard can distribute supplies by helicopter to snow- and mud-bound areas of the navajo reservation
col. vince barcolo, chief of staff of the arizona national guard, said he knew of no life-threatening problems on the reservation
we've done this mission a number of years,'' he said. ``when the snow melts, the mud comes up, and the navajos have a problem with getting to isolated areas of the reservation.''
barcolo said national guard helicopters would deliver food and livestock feed to the huge reservation in apache and navajo counties in northeastern arizona, and several fuel tank trucks and a communications van also would be dispatched
the mission was expected to last about three days, he said, with the helicopters based in window rock, headquarters of the reservation
navajo tribal officials were out of town and unavailable for comment, officials said
a joyrider who took four late-model cars and trucks this week has earned the grudging respect of beckley's finest
the joyrider was brazen, bold, efficient and 11 years old
i've never seen anything like it,'' said patrolman don lilly. ``he stole them like a pro.''
like many professionals, the young suspect was a specialist. all four of the stolen vehicles _ two chevrolets, a gmc and a buick _ were general motors products
he said they were the easiest to steal,'' lilly said
the technique in each theft was the same, he said. the boy broke the door locks, then broke into the steering column to defeat the locking mechanism
then he'd just start them up and drive off, and all this in a matter of seconds,'' lilly said
in quick succession wednesday night, police found two vehicles taken from a shopping center, one from a mine service company and a fourth from a home
we'd find one of the missing cars, and another one would turn up nearby,'' lilly said. ``it looks like he just drove them around, parked them, cranked up another one, and took off.''
investigators found the boy through a combination of forensic evidence and a tip from a witness who saw the suspect near one of the vehicles
i was taking fingerprints off of one of the blazers and noticed they seemed awfully small,'' lilly said. ``we started checking, and every one of the seats was pushed up as far as it would go.''
officials contacted the nearest elementary school, described the suspect and principal walter peelish led them to the boy
i called his grandmother, and she gave her permission for him to talk to the police,'' peelish said
peelish said the youth transferred to the school recently after moving from another state and had not been a difficult student
a kid's a kid, and they all get a little rowdy, but we've really had no problems with him,'' he said
lilly said the boy admitted stealing the cars, and gave police several tips on his methods
the boy was released in his grandmother's custody pending juvenile court action. he is charged with four counts of auto theft, and one count of grand larceny for removing a stereo from one of the vehicles
massachusetts gov. michael dukakis said friday ``there's a difference between talking about things and doing things,'' a dig at the long legislative careers of his democratic presidential rivals
trudging through a snowstorm that stalled new hampshire, dukakis suggested that his chief democratic opponents make speeches and promises while he, as a governor, takes action
dukakis said he is fit to lead ``because i've done it. because i've demonstrated i can do it. these just aren't promises; these just aren't speeches.''
there's a difference between talking about things and doing things,'' dukakis said in a snowy campaign stop at manchester's fire department
dukakis finished third in monday's iowa caucus behind missouri rep. richard gephardt and illinois sen. paul simon, both of whom have long legislative careers
polls leading up to tuesday's first-in-the-nation new hampshire primary show dukakis in first place, riding his regional advantage, with gephardt and simon trailing
the governor's remarks echoed the recent republican campaign tack of vice president george bush, who has been contrasting his executive experience with bob dole's congressional career
dukakis criticized gephardt for failing to get his legislative agenda through congress. dukakis said a gephardt proposal to impose trade reprisals against countries that bar imports from the united states is stalled
his amendment is dead. it's been killed in a democratic senate, which, apparently, he doesn't understand,'' dukakis said
the governor opposes trade barriers, saying they would only encourage other countries to follow suit
we aren't going to compete strongly and effectively in this world by putting walls,'' dukakis said. ``we're not going to do it by hunkering down and going back to old ideas and old solutions that have been tried and failed.''
emory university researchers have fitted monkeys with contact lenses in a study that they hope could yield new ways to treat babies born with cataracts and other vision disabilities
the study at the yerkes regional primate research center involves a pediatric ophthalmologist, a primate behavioral psychologist, neuroscientists and several dozen monkeys
in the experiments, rhesus monkeys undergo lens-removal surgery to simulate the operation performed on a newborn with cataracts, the cloudiness of the eye lens that often plagues older adults
such cataract surgery is not new. in most cases, when a lens is removed, the patient can be fitted with corrective contact lenses or glasses
but the surgery poses special problems in young children, because humans are born without fully developed vision systems; the eyes and the brain must learn to work together. if deprived of normal visual stimulation _ such as by cataracts _ special cells needed for vision fail to mature properly
cataract surgery must be performed in children at a very early age. even so, doctors have had poor results in trying to stimulate development. despite corrective lenses, the best most children have achieved has been 20-40 vision
in the experiment, the researchers remove a healthy lens from one eye of each monkey. they fit them with contact lenses made at the center's lab and try various treatment to prompt successful vision development
hopefully, we'll be able to relate these results to the human child,'' dr. ronald boothe, the ophthalmologist and behaviorist who heads the two-year-old study, said in an interview friday
in both monkeys and man, patients with one good eye and one bad one will rely on the good eye
if a child's left to his own devices, he'll ignore it (the damaged eye),'' said dr. howard eggers, a pediatric ophthalmologist from new york's columbia university who is working with the yerkes primate researchers. ``we want to force usage of the cataract eye.''
to force use of the weaker eye, a child can be fitted with a patch over the good eye. monkeys don't like to wear eye patches, so the yerkes monkeys are fitted with a black contact lens over their good eye
in either case, stimulating proper vision development in the bad eye is not as simple as just blocking the good one, eggers said. if worn too little, a patch will leave the patient relying on the good eye; too long, and vision in the patched eye will deteriorate
doctors are unsure how long the patches or black lenses should be worn to give each eye the proper visual stimulation, eggers said. ``we don't know the best method, and we obviously cannot experiment with children.''
to solve the problem, yerkes researchers are using different lens routines on different monkeys. some wear a black contact lens all the time, some never do, and others wear it for different intervals
researchers check the study's remaining 20 monkeys every two hours to make sure they haven't lost their lenses. ``they have a great ability to rub contact lenses out,'' eggers said. lost lenses are quickly replaced
researchers test the monkeys' vision, in part, by showing them patterns on a video screen and rewarding them with banana pellets when they recognize the proper pattern _ thus proving their vision is working
after the lens trials, the monkeys are killed so researchers can examine their brains and the development of their optical nerve systems, boothe said. correct date of program, provide complete quote.</note>
police say they believe they have arrested the man who was shown ``cooking'' the hallucinogenic drug pcp on a network television news program
michael wilson davis, 30, of college park, was arrested thursday as he allegedly arranged with an undercover police officer to buy chemicals needed to manufacture pcp, or phencyclidine hydrochloride, said officer v. richard molloy, a police spokesman
police allege davis is a major east coast manufacturer of the drug, which has been associated with violence in users
police believe davis was the man who appeared on cbs-tv's ``west 57th'' program in a report on the dangers of pcp. the shadowed figure was shown in the background ``cooking'' pcp
police said they recently obtained a tape of the program, which cbs said was broadcast in september 1985
malloy said the man on the program showed no remorse when asked if he felt bad about making the drug
according to cbs spokesman roy brunett, the ``west 57th'' segment shows an unidentified man telling an interviewer, ``i figured if they wanted to buy it, they wanted to buy it, and they knew what the reactions were.''
davis and edward charles centerfeit, 31, of shadyside, were both charged with conspiracy to manufacture pcp, police said
davis also was charged with possessing a .25-caliber automatic handgun, police said
both men were held pending a bail hearing
here is the text of alexander m. haig jr.'s statement friday announcing his withdrawal from the republican presidential race
it's evident to me that the contest in hawaii, michigan, and iowa, and my own assessment of new hampshire, make it clear that al haig will not be the republican candidate in 1988
my choice, therefore, is to work as effectively as i can for the principles and the policies that led me into the race in the first place. i'm therefore announcing today my withdrawal as a candidate for the republican presidential nomination and my support for the candidate best qualified to lead this nation
to my family, my friends, and my supporters, let me express my enduring gratitude for the devotion and your help throughout this campaign. only in america could a non-politician have achieved even as much as i have. even though i was the darkest of the dark horses, you supported me because you and i believe, at the very least, we could shape the issues in this campaign. believe me, we've done that
to my fellow republicans, and to my fellow americans, let me say this. the '88 elections should not be about business as usual in america. our next president should not be a man who offers simply more of the same. we need a leader who truly reflects the mainstream values that made this country great, including hard work, moral convictions, and tolerance for the diversity of america. we should have the experience and the skill that comes from a record of having made a difference. and our next president should understand that good government means competent government run by the very best people america can provide
in my judgment, senator robert dole is the candidate best able to lead our country into the '90s. he has risen from among the people through hard work and honest effort. he has never forgotten that america is, above all, the adventure of the common man. and he knows from experience how to make our government work. bob dole has indeed made a difference
as a candidate in this campaign, only bob dole embodies best my understanding of the crucial challenges we face and what we must do to meet them. he knows, and i agree, that we must tackle the horrendous budget deficit now, without resorting to short-term gimmicks or destructive tax increases that would cripple our nation's economy. he knows, and i agree, that the answer to our trade policy must not be self-defeating protectionism
he knows, and i agree, that in dealing with the soviet union we must give moscow no choice but restraint. and, above all, it is very clear to me that bob dole has the strength of character a president must have to deal with mikhail gorbachev
i am proud to offer my support for bob dole. i urge each of my supporters and all republicans to vote for bob dole in this crucial new hampshire primary and every primary thereafter. the party needs bob dole; so does america
now, finally, a word about that unique american institution, the media. every candidate for a high public office undergoes the most searching scrutiny from the media. they were fair to me. i hope you feel i was fair to you
near blizzard conditions disrupted presidential campaigns and almost brought the state to a halt friday with up to two feet of snow predicted and winds gusting to 60 mph
it's terrible out there,'' state police dispatcher norman st. hilaire said friday. weir lundstedt of the national weather service in concord added, ``it's not a day to go out and challenge the storm.''
the weather played havoc with campaign schedules, as candidates worked feverishly to win support before tuesday's presidential primary
staff members scrambled to revise schedules as most candidates had to scrap events. several were having trouble flying in or out of the state, with airports closed. bob dole had planned to travel to new orleans and pat robertson had hoped to go to washington. neither got out of the state
jesse jackson and albert gore jr., both in virginia, and jack kemp, in washington, were trying to get to new hampshire
only richard gephardt had a campaign event made to order for such a day _ he was to watch a dog sled race at opechee park in laconia
the curtailed campaigning also put a crimp in news coverage
television crews covering vice president george bush, who was holed up in his hotel part of the day, dashed outside to film the storm to show why candidates were notcampaigning
the weather service predicted the storm should end after midnight
the flight crews of brazil's two largest airlines went on strike for higher wages friday, tying up most domestic and some international flights on the eve of carnival celebrations
non-brazilian carriers were not affected by the strike at varig and vasp airlines. transbrasil, brazil's other major airline, operated normally after reaching a separate agreement with its flight crews
the sao paulo and rio de janeiro international airports said the strike stopped all departures and arrivals of varig and vasp. shuttle service between rio and sao paulo also was suspended
an estimated 30,000 to 40,000 passengers, including many carnival tourists, will be affected by the planned three-day strike, the airlines' press offices said
the huge carnival celebration kicks off saturday and runs until ash wednesday, feb. 17
edson antonio matosinho, one of the directors of brazil's 12,000-strong flight crew union, said in a telephone interview that about 7,000 varig and vasp employees joined the strike
the strike was called to demand a 65 percent wage hike, matosinho said
flight crew workers' salaries range from $385 to $3,300 a month, he said
former president jimmy carter's boyhood home, high school and the railroad depot that served as his 1976 campaign headquarters are centerpieces of a project to turn his hometown into a major tourist attraction
the national park service will assume responsibility for preserving the jimmy carter national historic site during a dedication ceremony at the depot on saturday morning. those scheduled to attend include carter, former officials of his administration and members of the georgia congressional delegation
about 80,000 visitors a year stop at the small welcome center in plains, an agricultural community of 650 residents in the heart of georgia's peanut belt. that is down considerably from the hundreds of thousands of tourists who visited plains annually during carter's presidency
but in four or five years, after the park service has built exhibits, rehabilitated buildings and made other improvements, the town could attract up to 300,000 visitors a year, said john tucker, who will manage the carter site in addition to his duties as superintendent of the nearby andersonville national historic site
there will be a lot people can see and do,'' tucker said. ``i think it'll be a lot more attractive to the people going up and down i-75.''
the popularity of the 39th president's hometown will help the surrounding area, he said
one of the primary benefits ... would be in the area of tourism,'' tucker said. ``that'll be a tremendous economic benefit to sumter county and southwest georgia.''
president reagan on dec. 23 signed legislation authorizing the park service to acquire carter's home on the town's main street, his boyhood home on the outskirts of town, a vacant brick building where he attended high school and the depot, which houses a carter museum
eventually, the carters will donate their home and its furnishings to the park service, but they will occupy the house for their lifetimes. the carter home, ringed by a metal fence and protected by secret service agents, will be closed to the public for now
deeds for the railroad depot and high school will be transferred to the park service during saturday's ceremony
in addition to the historic site, the federal legislation also establishes a 730-acre jimmy carter national preservation district that includes the town and some surrounding areas
the park service plans to acquire easements in the preservation district, through donations or purchases, to preserve plains' small-town, rural character, tucker said. aid</head>
a congressional critic of president reagan's central america policy said friday the white house may have left a loophole in a directive barring government officials from aiding private fund-raising efforts for the nicaraguan contras
i was disturbed to learn ... that the white house instructions may not apply to all executive branch employees,'' rep. david bonior, d-mich., the chief deputy house whip, wrote in a letter to reagan
white house chief of staff howard h. baker jr. and national security adviser colin l. powell on wednesday issued a memorandum directing that ``no administration official should provide assistance or encouragement of any kind'' to such fund-raising efforts
but bonior said the memo was addressed only to white house and national security council staff members, and not to officials of the state department, pentagon and the cia
if the white house intentionally excepted the cia, defense and state departments, they are laying the groundwork for another iran-contra scandal,'' bonior said in a statement
during last summer's congerssional hearings into the iran-contra arms and money affair, activities by white house and state department officials to raise money for the contras, including those of lt. col. oliver l. north, became a focus of concern over the ``privatization'' of u.s. foreign policy
in the memo, baker and powell said ``no administration official should take a position for or against private support for the democratic resistance'' and that officials should discourage discussions of the subject at meetings where they are present
contra leaders have said they were actively seeking private monetary support
meanwhile, reagan declined an invitation from congressional leaders to participate in the drafting of a package of strictly ``humanitarian'' aid to the contras to take the place of the $36 million administration package, which included military aid, killed by the house on feb. 4
house speaker jim wright, d-texas, and other democratic leaders had written reagan on tuesday to ask for his suggestions, but reagan wrote back thursday that he would not offer ideas, but only react to any proposal congress might draft
the outlines of an acceptable package must provide sufficient aid to sustain the freedom fighters in order to maintain those pressures that have moved the peace process forward,'' reagan wrote
the statement seemed a clear indication that the administration will insist on aid that would keep the rebels active as a fighting force
without immediate action by the congress, the freedom fighters will become recklessly exposed, and may soon have to make irreversible decisions about their own future,'' reagan said in the letter. ``even as i write this letter, we have reliable reports of new soviet military shipments to nicaragua.''
current u.s. aid for the rebels, including authority for the cia to make air drops to fighters in the field inside nicaragua, ends feb. 29
in a speech thursday night to a conservative political group, reagan vowed that ``the curtain hasn't fallen'' on aid to the rebels
we're not giving up on those who are fighting for their freedom, and they aren't giving up either,'' reagan said
asked friday what the administration intends to do, white house spokesman marlin fitzwater said: ``if we can't reach an agreement (with the democrats), we will have our own package.''
fitzwater said no decision has been made whether an administration package would contain military aid, adding, ``first of all, we want to see what the speaker (wright) produces.''
fitzwater said that by the end of february there will be another vote in congress on aid _ either the democratic plan or an administration package. location of airline base.</note>
an airline passenger with a beef over a bunless hamburger threw his plate and eating utensils at a flight attendant who was unable to placate him with a first class roll, an airline official said friday
matthew wallis, 45, of new york city, was booked for investigation of misdemeanor battery when american airlines flight 209 from new york landed at 10:15 p.m. thursday at los angeles international airport. he was freed after posting bail of $500
wallis was one of 50 people aboard the dc-10 who had ordered a special meal, said steve mcgregor, a spokesman for american, based in fort worth, texas
he had ordered a hamburger. for some reason, the hamburger did not have a bun with it. he became somewhat unhappy with that fact. our people notified the lead flight attendant who did obtain a roll from the first class section, thinking that might placate him. it did not,'' mcgregor said
wallis' wife, who flew with him on the new york to los angeles flight, ordered the same special meal, mcgregor said
her hamburger, in fact, did have a bun,'' mcgregor said
when the proffered roll failed to satisfy wallis, chief flight attendant sue roen, of los angeles, advised the captain of the problem. he ``told her to read him that portion of the law outlining passenger misconduct,'' mcgregor said
she did, but that only appeared to make the passenger angrier, mcgregor said
after using profanities, he picked up his plate with the knife and fork still on it and threw it at her (ms. roen), hitting her and narrowly missing a passenger with the flying knife,'' said los angeles police sgt. joe arreola
ms. roen was uninjured and none of the passengers around wallis was hurt, arreola said
wallis was placed under citizen's arrest by ms. roen after she was struck by the plate. the captain contacted los angeles international airport and asked that police stand by, mcgregor said
interference with a flight crew is a federal offense and we always prosecute. that will be the case here, too,'' mcgregor said
mcgregor was unsure how many passengers were aboard the flight and didn't know what the menu item was for passengers who had made no special requests
three eastern european countries have begun talks with the boeing and mcdonnell douglas aircraft companies to supply long-range passenger planes to replace aging soviet equipment in their national airlines, deputy secretary of state john c. whitehead said friday
whitehead, just back from a two-week trip to four soviet-bloc countries, told reporters ``my impression is they are very much interested in buying u.s. planes. it's a significant thing, psychologically, i believe _ eastern european countries flying u.s. planes.''
he declined to identify the countries that expressed interest, but another official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said they were poland, hungary and romania
if deals are arranged it would be the first u.s. aircraft sales to hungary and poland
in the early 1970s, romania purchased several boeing 707 passenger jets under a contract arranged at a time when the united states was wooing romania in hopes of increasing that country's independence from moscow
whitehead said that from the state department's viewpoint, ``it would be feasible and desirable'' for the sales, but he noted two major stumbling blocks
buying u.s. aircraft would require large expenditures by the governments and credits from the u.s. export-import bank for the purchases would not be available, whitehead said
the aircraft companies, moreover, would be prohibited from selling equipment on a list of military-applicable goods banned for export to communist countries. this could limit the type of airplanes the countries could buy
there is some navigational equipment that could not be on the planes,'' whitehead said. ``they would have to buy stuff that would not be on the (embargo) list.''
whitehead, the no. 2 official in the state department, has assumed special responsibility for a u.s. effort to gain influence in countries that have been dominated by the soviet union since world war ii
under the policy, the united states has offered the nations increased trade and better relations in general, in return for improved human rights performance and the institution of free economic policies. on his latest trip, whitehead visited poland, romania, bulgaria and czechoslovakia
whitehead said he told romanian leader nicolae ceausescu that his country is in danger of losing special trading rights granted by congress each year to reward romania for its relatively free emigration policies
the trading rights _ most-favored-nation status _ have been worth hundreds of millions of dollars to romania in previous years, but renewal for 1988 has been suspended by congress because the ceausescu government's human rights policies are considered repressive, especially toward religious minorities
whitehead said he told the romanian leader there was only a ``50-50 chance it would be renewed, but there was still time.''
ceausescu, in keeping with previous discussions with u.s. officials, refused to discuss the human rights issues on grounds they were strictly an internal matter, whitehead said
i came home with not much reason to hope there will be improvement,'' he said
prime minister yitzhak shamir said friday his coalition partner and rival, foreign minister shimon peres, was going behind his back in an effort to sabotage shamir's strategy for middle east peace
his accusation came the day after peres suggested that intransigence by shamir thwarted talks with king hussein of jordan, which the foreign minister said could have averted palestinian riots in the occupied west bank and gaza strip
at the center of the argument over peace is an initiative by the united states
israeli officials said secretary of state george p. shultz telephoned peres and shamir on thursday to say he will visit the middle east after his scheduled feb. 21-23 trip to moscow
u.s. envoy richard murphy outlined the new american ideas to israel's coalition government this week
according to israeli officials, the plan calls for an international conference, possibly in geneva, as a means of beginning arab-israeli talks by april
negotiations would focus first on a temporary autonomy plan for the 1.5 million palestinians in the occupied territories. talks on the final status of the west bank and gaza strip would begin by december even if self-government had not begun
peres immediately endorsed the proposals, but shamir said clarifications were needed, and expressed reservations about the rapid timetable and international role. shamir leads the right-wing likud bloc and peres head the center-left labor party
on israel radio thursday, the prime minister expressed frustration over what called leaks intended to undercut his negotiating position
every expression of cooperation on my part is thrown in my face immediately,'' he said. ``i show mr. peres a letter and after a few hours it is in the hands of all the reporters
everything he does is in the middle of the night. what i do he wants to know about so that he can sabotage it.''
shamir accused peres of surrendering to arab demands for the return of land captured in the 1967 middle east war
how can you conduct negotiations together when your partner runs every day and every minute to the other side and says, `don't listen to what shamir says, i'll sell it to you cheaper?''' shamir declared
moshe shahal of the labor party rejected shamir's claim that peres was ``overeager'' to accept the u.s. proposals
we are not being overeager. the prime minister is trying to give an excuse for a period of no movement,'' he said
in a speech to party members thursday night, peres indirectly accused shamir of blocking an international conference agreed to by jordan
if the negotiations with an international opening had begun in april, when they could have been started, would or would it not have spared us the events in the territories?'' peres said
riots began dec. 8 and more than 50 arabs have been killed, nearly all of them by israelis, accurding to u.n. figures
in an interview with hearst newspapers correspondent john p. wallach, shamir said: ``it's not a question of intransigence, of a refusal to talk about it, but i don't want to make the american government fail
if we come today with king hussein and the other arabs, and try to negotiate about the final status, the negotiations will explode immediately. israel will say, `we want israeli sovereignty.' the other side will say, `we want arab sovereignty' and it is finished. ... it will be over before it starts.''
shamir said a five-year period was needed between palestinian autonomy and talks about a final settlement so confidence and trust could be built. he said that was the concept in the 1978 camp david accords, which led to the peace treaty with egypt in march 1979
israel television said shamir sent a letter to shultz on wednesday requesting changes in the u.s. proposal, but shultz refused
it said shamir asked the americans to drop the international conference, extend the autonomy timetable and not to set a date for talks about the final status of the occupied territories
the prime minister also asked the united states to enlist the support of other countries for building urban neighborhoods to house the gaza strip's palestinian refugees, repoort said
the fish and wildlife service added 59 species to the list of endangered and threatened species last year, the second highest total ever, the service said thursday
in the previous most active year, 1979, 68 species were added
the list now stands at 993 animals and plants, of which 513 are found only in foreign countries, the service said in a year-end report
one species was removed from the list after confirmation of its long-suspected extinction _ the amistad gambusia, a small fish found in some springs in texas
another species died out during the year, but the paperwork to remove it from the list has not been completed, spokesman david klinger said. this was the dusky seaside sparrow, whose last survivor, an elderly male in captivity, died in florida
among other reasons to call it a good year, the service noted its reestablishment of the red wolf in the wild in north carolina, the growth of the chesapeake bay bald eagle population from 136 pairs to 161, successful captive breeding of the black-footed ferret and establishment of a second population of california sea otters off the coast near los angeles
too late to make the report was the successful mating of condors in captivity in california. the service removed the last condor from the wild last year on easter sunday, and hopes to rebuild the population through breeding in captivity
environmentalists have complained that under the reagan administration, the service has been moving far too slowly in making decisions, and that it will take 16 years or so to work through the backlog of about 1,000 candidate species
they have said that in the last 20 years, 300 species became extinct while waiting for a decision
listing of a species as threatened or endangered under the 1973 endangered species act means federal agencies must consult the service about any of their activities which could harm it. also, the service must draft and try to carry out a recovery plan, of which 222 are in effect. sensors, not in computers. no pick up.</note>
a research satellite launched last week to test elements of the proposed ``star wars'' anti-missile shield failed in a secondary tracking excercise when an optical sensor gave false data to two on-board computers, an air force official said friday
air force col. john otten, assistant director of the strategic defense initiative's kinetic energy office, said an optical sensor on delta 181, a satellite used to test ``star wars'' sensors and trackers, gave flawed data when it tried to track target objects that were beyond its range
otten said the sensor data went into the computers, causing them to respond inappropriately. he said the flaw was detected within an hour and the computers were told to ignore the data. this corrected the problem
some of the test data on the system was lost because of the problem, but otten said the loss was minor because the tracking exercise was a secondary objective. ``in the fundamental mission we suceeded,'' he said
delta 181 was launched feb. 8 from the kennedy space center and spent 12 hours conducting a series of tests to gather data needed to refine the sdi, or ``star wars,'' anti-missile system
program manager andy green last week called the flight ``a very successful mission.''
however, aviation week and space technology, in a story prepared for monday publication, said the satellite was unable to complete ``battle management fire control computations.''
the magazine blamed the problem on the computers, but otten said the flaw actually was caused by the optical sensor attempting to lock onto an object beyond its range
sensors on the satellite were used to track 14 sub-satellite targets released in two groups from the delta
otten said the problem developed when the optical sensor located an object, looked away, and then tried to relocate the original object. by then, the target had moved beyond the range of the sensor
the tracking test using the optical sensor was halted when the fuel budgeted for that exercise became exhausted, otten said
he said an infrared sensor also failed to function properly, but infrared data was collected by a back-up system
otten said only about three percent of the data collected during the 12-hour mission of delta 181 has been examined. infractions</head> spelling of spokesman's last name to gersuk, sted gersick as sent.</note>
the marine corps and the state department on friday minimized a report that more than 500 instances of possible wrongdoing by marine guards at embassies worldwide had not been investigated properly
many of the so-called `infractions' were very minor, such as curfew violations, insubordination, and misuse of telephone that could have no conceivable tie to suspected kgb activity,'' the corps said in a statement. the kgb is the soviet spy agency
both agencies responded to rep. dan mica's statement that more than 500 reports of infractions by marines at embassies had remained in the state department's files until recently
mica, d-fla., said the reports, which dealt with black market activities or fraternization with soviets, are supposed to be turned over to the naval investigative service for further investigation
mica said his information came from the general accounting office, the congressional watchdog agency, which began looking into security at the embassies in the wake of allegations of espionage at the moscow embassy
the kgb often encourages people to engage in illegal behavior as a first step to gaining cooperation with the soviets, mica said
a state department official, speaking on condition he remain anonymous, said the decision to turn over information about a possible violation by a marine guard is sometimes made by the marines, sometimes by the department
there have been instances where one or both passed'' along information to the nis, the official said. the removal of a marine is also a joint decision, he said
asked about the 578 reports referred to by mica, the corps said, ``the report is actually a listing of the marine security guards whose tours of duty as embassy guards were cut short for a variety of reasons during the period 1980-1987.''
some marines were removed for disciplinary reasons; others for medical reasons or for giving a substandard performance, the statement said
of the security guards sent home between 1985-1987 ``only a handful could be said to relate to espionage.'' during that period, only one marine, sgt. clayton lonetree, has been convicted of espionage for his activities in moscow
the marines said they had not known about the list of 578 until june 1987 ``when it surfaced at the department of state.''
mica was not available to comment because he is in florida preparing to announce his candidacy for u.s. senate. but his spokesman, john gersuk, said infractions on the list could have been things other than black marketeering or fraternization violations
mica has said the various agencies' procedures for handling potential security problems are chaotic and may need to be overhauled
the hotel del coronado, a lavish victorian seaside resort with a star-studded past, will celebrate its centennial next weekend with an extravangaza befitting its most gilded days
built in 1888 for $1 million, the hotel is one of the world's largest wooden structures and the nation's only working commercial hotel with a national monument designation
famous for its queen anne design, the del, as the hotel is known locally, has served as host to 10 presidents, royalty from around the world and countless celebrities
businessman montgomery ward, actors charlie chaplin and mary pickford, and president abraham lincoln's son, robert todd, are among those who signed its registry. thomas edison was the five-story hotel's lighting technician
the picturesque resort of red-roofed turrets atop a white gingerbread exterior on a peninsula south of san diego also has been a backdrop for a number of films and television shows
the hotel del is something fantastic,'' said silent screen star anita paige, who stayed at the hotel while filming ``the flying fleet'' in 1927. ``i've been to europe since and their only competition is in france.''
a posh weekend party celebrating the 100th birthday of the wooden castle's feb. 19, 1888, opening begins friday night
some 750 guests, including dozens of celebrities and movie stars, have paid $5,000 a couple to participate in the full weekend. proceeds will be donated to charity
at friday night's festivities for 2,000, a disc jockey resembling a hip edison will spin records in one room as musicians and dancers perform in others
marilyn monroe look-alikes and original munchkins from the movie ``the wizard of oz'' will wander the paneled hallways. the film ``some like it hot,'' starring miss monroe, jack lemmon and tony curtis, was filmed on location at the hotel in 1958, and oz author l. frank baum, a frequent hotel guest, allegedly based his book's emerald city on the del
saturday will feature a harbor tour with america's cup victor dennis conner, a celebrity tennis tournament and a ball, followed by a turn-of-the-century style picnic sunday with hot air balloons and a navy air show
comedians george burns and phyllis diller will be among the weekend's entertainers
but as current owner larry lawrence tells it, the hotel itself nearly didn't make it to the party. when he bought the 399-room hotel in 1963, it had fallen prey to termites and neglect
there was no electricity in many places, no water above the second floor,'' said lawrence, the hotel's sixth owner. ``it was infested with termites and rats. this was a property that had everything but the bulldozer gutting it down.''
more than $40 million later, the hotel stands with its stateliness restored. it has new foundations, plumbing, heating, electricity and an $8 million fire protection system
a steel frame was implanted to bolster the crown room, a monumental dining room with a sugar pine ceiling that rises 33 feet. the hotel also was expanded
in 1970, the crown room was the site of the largest state dinner outside washington, d.c., with then-president richard nixon, outgoing president lyndon johnson, mexican president gustavo diaz ordaz and 800 others
today, about half of the hotel's guests are corporate executives. with 1,400 employees serving 700 suites, guests pay a premium for service, lawrence said. the hotel's average rate is $200 a day
it all began as a dream of railroad tycoon elisha babcock and piano magnate h.l. story, who envisioned while hunting on the barren peninsula a resort that would be ``the talk of the western world.''
it was designed by three brothers, former railroad architects james, merritt and watson reid, and built largely by unskilled chinese laborers. it became the largest structure outside of new york city to be electrically lighted, powered by the first power plant in california
firefighters recovered the bodies of two people friday after a six-alarm blaze roared through an apartment complex, causing more than $1 million in damage and leaving 200 people homeless
authorities have not determined the cause of the fire at harvey's racquet apartments. all residents were accounted for
firefighters found one adult and one child inside the building and were still searching,'' fire capt. donna cooper said. the victims were not immediately identified
three others were slightly hurt, including one firefighter with a knee injury
the fire destroyed or damaged 48 apartments, officials said. about 120 firefighters battled the fast-moving fire at the apartments near love field in 20-degree weather
witnesses said some residents escaped from second and third-floor apartments by climbing or jumping from balcony-to-balcony
in addition to the those left homeless, another 100 residents lost electricity because the power was cut for several hours
complex employees and american red cross volunteers worked through the night to find temporary housing for residents. most were temporarily housed in vacant apartments in other areas of the complex
fire officials said it was the largest blaze in dallas since flames swept through the willow creek apartment complex five years ago
iraq said friday its air defenses shot down an unmanned israeli surveillance plane over iraqi territory near the border with saudi arabia
in israel, the military command said it had no information about such an incident and an army spokesman, speaking on condition of anonymity, said ``i believe we will not have any information.''
the official iraqi news agency, monitored in cyprus, quoted a military statement as saying the remote-controlled aircraft was ``launched by the zionists to jam iraqi air defenses and monitor data for the hireling (ayatollah ruhollah) khomeini regime.''
iraq and iraq are locked in a 7-year-old war and often accuse each other of receiving israeli aid
iraq said its air defenses destroyed the craft at 5:44 p.m. thursday near al ma'aniyah, a small outpost 185 miles southwest of baghdad on the saudi-iraqi border. it said the plane was launched from the ``occupied arab territories,'' a reference to israel and israeli-occupied territories
the agency gave no further details. it did not say what weapons were used to down the plane
in israel, a senior military source, speaking on condition of anonymity, said, ``i think this report is rubbish.'' he expressed doubt that an israeli drone could reach iraqi territory. it would have to fly about 430 miles to get to al ma'aniyah
the report was believed to be the first of an israeli intrusion into iraqi air space since israeli jets destroyed an uncompleted iraqi nuclear power station in 1981
israel has pioneered development of radio-controlled reconnaissance craft, but these have usually been used on relatively short missions. the israeli-made pioneer unmanned surveillance aircraft has a range of 115 miles. two other israeli-made drones, the scout and the mastiff, have a range of 62 miles and 84 miles respectively
the craft look like oversized model airplanes. they carry cameras, sometimes including tv cameras that help their distant ``pilots'' steer the craft to their objectives
the united states has been testing unmanned surveillance craft in the persian gulf
gov. tommy g. thompson ordered attorneys friday to go ahead with a lawsuit against chrysler corp., but held out hope for a settlement that would preserve jobs at the kenosha plant the automaker wants to close
thompson said chrysler does not want a breach of contract suit to be filed over its plan to lay off 5,500 auto workers at the plant in kenosha, which it acquired when it bought american motors corp. last year, and has expressed a willingness to negotiate with the state
it would be better for both parties to settle this case quickly,'' thompson said at a news conference
thompson said chrysler chairman lee iacocca telephoned him tuesday and that a meeting was likely soon between state and company oficials. he declined to say where or when it would be held
chrysler announced jan. 27 it would halt production of the omni-horizon autos sept. 30
attorney general don hanaway had advised the governor earlier that the state had a ``clearly enforceable'' agreement with chrysler calling for omni-horizon autos to be built in kenosha for five years
at a news conference in new york last week, iacocca defended his company's decision to close the aging kenosha plant.``we did not lie to anybody,'' he said. ``why would we?''
hanaway said the state has a ``good faith basis'' for filing the suit. and even though no contract with chrysler was signed, ``i don't consider this to be frivolous in any way,'' he said
in chicago, chrysler motors chairman gerald greenwald said company officials were sorry the kenosha plant had to be closed
i guess you could say chrysler was overly optimistic'' when it told workers and government officials in wisconsin that it believed it could build the omni-horizon small car at kenosha for up to five years, greenwald said
but we never lied to anyone and we believe there are no grounds for a lawsuit claiming we did lie,'' he said. ``we never made any hard commitments.''
greenwald said chrysler always said market conditions would dictate the future of the plant
greenwald said chrysler would repay the city and county of kenosha more than $1 million the governments spent on improvements for the plant
during greenwald's news conference, about 50 wisconsin autoworkers picketed for hours in icy slush and 10-degree weather outside his hotel to protest the kenosha closing
outside, workers carried signs bearing slogans such as: ``1st in quality, 1st to close;'' ``work hard, get worked over;'' and ``lee is a liar,'' referring to chrysler chairman lee iacocca, who appears in television ads asking customers to trust chrysler
thirty-two senators have written to kremlin leader mikhail s. gorbachev asking him not to interfere with demonstrations and religious services scheduled this sunday and tuesday in the soviet republics of lithuania and estonia, it was announced friday
the senators wrote gorbachev ``to urge you not only to allow the lithuanian and estonian people to peacefully honor their national independence days, but also to take all necessary measures to guarantee that they do not become targets of state-sponsored harassment before or after these commemorations.''
the state-controlled soviet news media has criticized similar congressional statements in the past for inciting public demonstrations in the baltic republics
the latest congressional letter, co-sponsored by sens. donald riegle, d-mich., david durenberger, r-minn., and frank lautenberg, d-n.j., praised gorbachev for not interfering with demonstrations by an estimated 10,000 people in the three baltic republics last aug. 23
those demonstrations marked the anniversary of the 1939 molotov-ribbentrop pact under which stalin agreed to allow hitler to invade western poland and hitler allowed stalin to invade eastern poland, lithuania, latvia and estonia
for years, the citizens of estonia and lithuania have celebrated, within the privacy of their homes, their pre-soviet independence days in february
the public demonstrations in the baltic republics last august came in response to gorbachev's policies of greater openness, and brought warnings from two conservative members of the ruling politburo, viktor chebrikov, chairman of the kgb security police, and yegor ligachev, the communist party's chief ideologist, that things were getting out of hand
the u.s. senators wrote gorbachev that they had received reports from emigre groups ``that 200 lithuanians have written a letter informing you of their intention to commemorate their independence day on feb. 16 with flower-laying ceremonies.''
religious services also have been scheduled sunday to mark the pre-soviet national day in lithuania, which remains overwhelmingly roman catholic after nearly 50 years of rule by the officially atheistic kremlin authorities
the senators said ``one report reaching the west indicates that soviet authorities may move to block these peaceful ceremonies.'' they cited a report of the beating in vilnius on feb. 6 of nijole sadunaite, a leading lithuanian dissident, ``in an apparent attempt to intimidate her.''
the lithuanian information center, an emigre organization with offices in washington and new york, blamed the beating on plainclothes kgb officers
the letter cited concern over ``official harassment and abuse'' against demonstrators and cited as an ominous warning a report in the communist party daily pravda on jan. 29 that lithuanian authorities ``had decided to intensify their efforts against `bourgeois nationalsim and clerical extremism.''
the senators signing the letter, besides riegle, lautenberg and durenberger, were: brock adams, d-wash.; rudy boschwitz, r-minn.; bill bradley, d-n.j.; dale bumpers, d-ark.; quentin burdick, d-n.d.; thomas daschle, d-s.d.; dennis deconcini, d-ariz.; alan dixon, d-ill.; christopher dodd, d-conn.; john glenn, d-ohio; bob graham, d-fla.; and john heinz, r-pa
also, david karnes, r-neb.; carl levin, d-mich.; richard lugar, r-ind.; barbara mikulski, d-md.; george mitchell, d-maine; daniel moynihan, d-n.y.; frank murkowski, r-alaska; william proxmire, d-wis.; david pryor, d-ark.; harry reid, d-nev.; paul sarbanes, d-md.; paul simon, d-ill.; arlen specter, r-pa.; paul trible, r-va.; lowell weicker, r-conn.; pete wilson, r-calif.; and timothy wirth, d-colo
the national education association said friday its teachers turned out in force in the iowa caucuses and are poised to grab a large share of new hampshire's democratic convention delegate slots
the union said 10,000 members turned out for the republican and democratic precinct caucuses in iowa last monday, or 30 percent more than in 1984
in new hampshire, nea members turned out in big numbers for pre-primary caucuses held jan. 23 to determine who would run on candidates' delegates slates
the union, in its weekly political newsletter, boasted that its members snared more than 25 percent of the slots on the democratic candidates' slates in new hampshire
the liberal union sent several hundred delegates to the last democratic convention and several dozen to the republican convention. it has refrained so far from endorsing any one candidate
but it has called all the democrats acceptable and encouraged state affiliates to maximize the number of teachers running for delegate under any banner
new york rep. jack kemp apparently has failed to file full delegate slates in his home state
the state board of elections said friday that only vice president george bush filed nominating petitions for delegates in all congressional delegates, according to a preliminary count
petitions for delegates slates in new york's april 19 primary had to be postmarked by midnight thursday
polls have shown bush with a solid lead in new york state and his delegate supporters were expected to be on the ballot in all 34 of new york's congressional districts
pat robertson's new york campaign director, henry hewes, has said he expected the former television preacher to have delegates on the ballot in 20-28 congressional districts
kemp's new york campaign director timothy carey and new york for dole director philip pepe said they expected their candidates to have delegates on the ballots in 20-22 districts
at the primary, republican voters will pick 102 delegates, three from each of the state's 34 congressional districts, to the convention. the republican state committee will choose 34 at-large delegates after the primary to round out new york's 136-member delegation at the gop convention in new orleans
democratic presidential hopeful bruce babbitt's environmental record won him the gold star in a report card issued friday by a national environmental watchdog group
the league of conservation voters praised babbitt and republican presidential hopeful pete du pont for their stands on the environment, while criticizing several other candidates, notably rep. jack kemp
the report gave the former arizona governor high marks for his stands on air pollution, acid rain, land management and knowledge of worldwide problems such as depletion of the ozone layer and rain forests
also scoring well among the democrats were tennesee sen. albert gore and illinois sen. paul simon, with missouri rep. richard gephardt getting the most lukewarm reception for votes on water and population issues
among republicans, du pont's record in congress on water pollution, toxic waste cleanup and population issues won him the league's highest score
league chairman brent blackwelder slammed several republicans, particularly kemp and vice president george bush, for their records and unwillingness to respond to questionnaires about their environmental views
kemp's record has gotten markedly worse in our last two charts, and the 50 percent grade we gave bush is probably better than some of his recent statements might suggest,'' blackwelder said
presidential candidates' schedules
here are tentative schedules for the presidential candidates for the week beginning feb. 14. the information was provided by the candidates
sunday, feb. 14:
democrats:
babbitt _ new hampshire
dukakis _ new hampshire
gephardt _ new hampshire
gore _ new hampshire
hart _ new hampshire
jackson _ plymouth, laconia, tilton and concord, n.h
simon _ nashua, manchester, cambridge, dover, nashua, n.h
republicans (debate, saint anselm's college, goffstown, n.h.):
bush _ new hampshire
dole _ manchester, goffstown, n.h
du pont _ manchester, goggstown, n.h
kemp _ bedford, manchester, goffstown, n.h
robertson _ manchester, concord, goffstown, n.h
monday, feb. 15:
democrats:
babbitt _ new hampshire
dukakis _ new hampshire
gephardt _ open
gore _ open
hart _ open
jackson _ new hampshire
simon _ hudson, newmarket, durham, exeter, manchester, concord and nashua, n.h
republicans:
bush _ new boston and nashua, n.h
dole _ new hampshire
du pont _ new hampshire
kemp _ nashua, n.h
robertson _ new hampshire
tuesday, feb. 16 (new hampshire primary):
democrats:
babbitt _ new hampshire
dukakis _ new hampshire
gephardt _ new hampshire
gore _ houston
hart _ open
jackson _ new hampshire
simon _ new hampshire
republicans:
bush _ new hampshire; washington
dole _ open
du pont _ new hampshire
kemp _ nashua, n.h
robertson _ new hampshire
wednesday, feb. 17:
democrats:
babbitt _ atlanta; texas
dukakis _ open
gephardt _ new hampshire; south dakota; texas
gore _ houston; shreveport, la.; dallas
hart _ open
jackson _ lansing, mich.; oklahoma; las vegas, nev
simon _ minnesota; chicago
republicans:
bush _ washington
dole _ open
du pont _ open
kemp _ open
robertson _ open
thursday, feb. 18:
democrats (dallas debate):
babbitt _ texas
dukakis _ open
gephardt _ texas
gore _ texas
hart _ open
jackson _ las vegas, nev.; dallas
simon _ st. louis; minnesota; texas
republicans:
bush _ joplin, mo.; houston
dole _ open
du pont _ open
kemp _ open
robertson _ open
friday, feb. 19:
democrats (st. paul debate):
babbitt _ texas, minnesota
dukakis _ open
gephardt _ open
gore _ open
hart _ open
jackson _ minneapolis, minn
simon _ south dakota; minnesota
republicans (dallas debate):
bush _ oklahoma city; dallas
dole _ open
du pont _ open
kemp _ open
robertson _ open
saturday, feb. 20:
democrats:
babbitt _ new york
dukakis _ open
gephardt _ open
gore _ open
hart _ open
jackson _ minnesota
simon _ minnesota; oklahoma
republicans:
bush _ houston, san antonio, back to houston, texas
dole _ open
du pont _ open
kemp _ open
robertson _ open
a psychiatrist may be barred from conducting federally sanctioned drug testing because of alleged inaccuracies he published regarding an experimental treatment for alzheimer's disease
dr. william k. summers of arcadia, calif., received the warning last month in a letter from the food and drug administration that involved his account of preliminary studies on tetrahydroaminocrydine, or tha, for combating the degenerative mental illness
after the new england journal of medicine published summers' paper in november 1986, a public outcry arose for wider testing of the drug, which summers said was very promising
the fda subsequently approved such broader testing, only to suspend it late last year because of an unanticipated number of side effects. the test procedures were redrawn and clinical trials allowed to resume last month
summers submitted his findings on the alzheimer's drug to the fda five days after their publication in the new england journal
the fda letter to summers noted that the journal article was submitted as part of his official report to the fda and said ``there are numerous statements in your nejm article that appear to be false.''
we believe that you have repeatedly or deliberately violated regulations pertaining to the proper conduct of clinical testing of investigational drugs,'' said the letter from dr. frances o. kelsey, director of an fda division that oversees compliance with agency research procedures. it said he may be barred from performing sanctioned tests in the future
the letter asked summers to explain 14 specific instances where the fda found evidence of misinformation. it said those ``are not a comprehensive compilation of findings, but represent the more significant regulatory violations that remain unexplained.''
one of the 14 charges said summers failed to report that eight patients in his study also were taking other drugs that could affect mental functioning, along with tha
another said he failed to report that 10 of the 12 patients in one phase of his study lived more than 2,000 miles from his office and ``that medical monitoring was erratic and conducted mainly through telephone contacts and letters with either family members who had a variety of perceptions or local physicians who, you concede, often did not follow your research protocol.''
a third charge questioned what the fda said is summers' subsequent acknowledgement that some of the study statistics he submitted were reconstructed from memory
it does not seem plausible that you precisely remembered multiple observations of the entire patient population without a written record,'' the agency said
summers relayed word through his answering service friday that he was not accepting telephone inquires about the subject. he has several informal and formal procedures available to him to defend his testing practices to the fda
the fda letter was disclosed initially in a story in friday's new york times
the fda has not released the letter, but the associated press obtained a copy from another government source. that source, who asked to remain anonymous, said summers has replied in writing to the fda but declined to release a copy of the response
paul gillmor, president of the ohio senate, announced his candidacy for congress on friday and suggested that his republican opponents withdraw to avoid a divisive 5th district primary
gillmor, 49, who earlier was considered a likely candidate for governor in 1990, decided to enter the race after veteran republican rep. delbert latta announced his retirement late last month
latta, 67, who has served the sprawling, 12-county district in northwestern ohio since 1957, has said that he will support his son, robert, a 32-year-old bowling green attorney who also has announced for the nomination
gillmore told about a dozen supporters here that the best way to avoid a bruising primary fight would be ``for the candidate who has the least experience, and who is not as well qualified as the other candidate, to drop out
i don't expect that to happen,'' he added
fremont businessman rex damschroder, son of former state rep. gene damschroder, also has filed nominating petitions as a republican. so far, no democrat has filed petitions in advance of the feb. 18 deadline
a convicted ira bomber serving a life sentence married his american sweetheart friday in a simple ceremony in the prison chapel
paul hill, 33, has been imprisoned for 14 years for bombings that killed seven people in england and injured 85. he says he is innocent and is hoping his conviction will be overturned by a new police inquiry
hill was allowed to chat briefly with his bride, marion severelli of new jersey, after the short ceremony conducted by a roman catholic chaplain at long lartin jail, 110 miles northwest of london
he was then returned to his cell. but he was allowed to celebrate with his bride and about 15 guests at a brief reception later during which the couple cut a wedding cake
a prison spokesman said no alcohol was served and the couple remained under the watchful eye of prison officers
ms. severelli, a buyer for a paper mill, first wrote to hill three years ago with news that a friend of his had died. after a year of writing, she flew to britain to meet him
when i first saw him, he was just about everything i thought he would be _gentle and feeling,'' she said. ``he is not at all cynical even though he is not guilty and has been locked up for almost 14 years.''
ms. severelli said she is convinced her husband is innocent and hopes he will be able to join her in the united states if he is ever released
she did not give her age or hometown and the information was not immediately available from prison officials
bombs exploded in october 1974 in two pubs in the town of guildford near london, killing four soldiers and a civilian and injuring about 50 other people. the following month, a bomb blew up in a pub in the london district of woolwich, killing two people and injuring 35 others. all three pubs were frequented by military personnel
responsibility for the bombings was claimed by the irish republican army. the group is fighting to end british rule in protestant-dominated northern ireland and unite the province with the overwhelmingly roman catholic irish republic
hill was one of four people convicted of the pub bombings. the so-called guildford four have always maintained their innocence
last july, home secretary douglas hurd ordered a police inquiry into the bombings after receiving statements from a delegation led by cardinal basil hume, head of the roman catholic church in england and wales, that expressed concern about the verdicts
ms. severelli said she and her husband had discussed the possibility that he might spend the rest of his life in jail, but they decided last spring to get married anyway
i don't know if he will get justice in a british court. but i believe that good will triumph,'' she was quoted as telling the guardian newspaper on friday
ms. severelli has been staying at the evesham prison visitor center to meet the residential qualification for the wedding. she is expected to return to the united states next week. agent</head>
the environmental protection agency said friday it had begun a special review of the insecticide dichlorvos, which is used in fly-killing pest strips and many other applications
the agency said studies on laboratory animals show the chemical may cause cancer and liver damage
some 2 million pounds of dichlorvos are used in about 800 products every year. about 25 percent is used on farm crops, 35 percent on livestock, 25 percent in commercial and industrial buildings and on lawns and ornamental crops, and 15 percent in homes and on pets, epa said
dichlorvos has been used since 1948 against flies, mosquitoes, gnats, cockroaches and other insects
last septmeber, the agency ordered new label warnings and restrictions on commercial use of most products to state-certified applicators, but did not restrict home and pet products. workers are supposed to keep out of commercial and agricultural areas for 48 hours after treatment
epa's special reviews can lead to fewer or more restrictions, a ban on the product or its exoneration. the agency tries to complete the reviews in 12 months to 15 months
angola has rejected a south african proposal for a regional peace conference that would include angolan rebels, angola's official angop news agency reported friday
it quoted a government statement as saying angola was prepared to hold direct peace talks with south africa if that country rejected the united states as a mediator
but the marxist government rejected any negotiations that would include rebels of the national union for the total independence of angola (unita), according to the report monitored in lisbon
it quoted the statement as saying, ``the reference to the participation of unita removes all credibility from the south african government's proposal.''
it also claimed the proposal was a maneuver aimed at gaining time to increase south african military pressure on government forces in southern angola
president p.w. botha of south africa said last month he was willing to participate in a regional meeting to resolve conflicts in southern africa and that unita should be represented
botha has not specifically proposed a peace conference or put forward any concrete suggestions
anti-communist unita guerrillas have been battling the government since the marxists gained power following angola's independence from portugal in 1975
the rebels are backed by south africa and receive aid from the united states. an estimated 40,000 cuban military personnel and soviet advisers are helping the government forces
south african troops have made frequent incursions into southern angola from neighboring south-west africa, also known as namibia
angola, in its statement that rejected any talks with unita, said it would be ``coherent and logical'' to include in a regional conference the south-west african people's organization (swapo) and the african national congress
the african national congress is the main rebel movement fighting south africa's white-led government and swapo is a black guerrilla group fighting for independence for namibia, which is administered by south africa
angop quoted the angolan statement as saying the main causes of confict in the region are south africa's ``illegal occupation'' of namibia, south african attacks against its black-ruled neighbors and its alleged creation of armed groups to carry out ``terrorist activities'' in those countrie, and the denial of political rights to the black majority in south africa
later friday, the angolan embassy in lisbon issued a statement denying reports published in portugal that representatives of the angolan government and unita would hold peace talks this summer in lisbon
port-au-prince, haiti (ap) _ parliament gave unanimous approval friday to prime minister martial celestin's 14-member cabinet, which includes a member of the former ruling junta as defense minister
no one identified as a duvalier supporter is in the cabinet but the new defense minister, brig. gen william regala, is not popular. critics repeatedly demanded his resignation during the two years of junta rule after dictator jean-claude duvalier fled the country feb. 7, 1986
celestin kept the portfolio of justice minister. gerard philippe-auguste, a former presidential candidate, is minister of agriculture
president leslie manigat and his prime minister appeared to be trying through the cabinet appointments to broaden popular support for their government. most of the members are known as liberals or moderates
manigat was declared the winner of the jan. 17 election, which was run by the junta, boycotted by the most popular presidential candidates and ignored by most haitians
philippe-auguste, an agronomist, was one of the four main candidates jan. 17. he and the other two who lost to manigat claimed the army rigged the vote in manigat's favor
an election in november managed by an independent electoral council was called off within hours because bands of thugs, often joined by soldiers, killed at least 34 people and wounded 75
among the other cabinet members are:
_gerard latortue, foreign affairs. latortue, 54, spent 25 years in exile during the three decades of duvalier dictatorship and was co-director of the u.n. organization for industrial development in vienna
_adrien westerband, public health. he is director of the haitian red cross
_emmanuel fils aime, education and sports. fils aime was education minister for two months in 1985 and is the only new cabinet minister to have held a public position under jean-claude or his father, francois (papa doc) duvalier
_alain turnier, finance. he is an industrialist and writer in his early 70s who was finance minister under gen. paul magloire, the president before the elder duvalier gained power in 1957
_yves auguste, interior and decentralization. auguste was ambassador to the united nations for the interim government
four leaders of the leftist terrorist group direct action were convicted of belonging to a criminal organization friday and sentenced to 10 years in prison
jean-marc rouillan, nathalie menigon, joelle aubron and georges cipriani, all on hunger strikes for the past 72 days, face trial later on more serious charges, including murder
the two men and two women were brought to court in wheelchairs. they are being held at fresnes prison's hospital in the paris suburbs
fifteen other direct action members were tried with the leaders, including one tried in absentia. eleven were convicted of belonging to a criminal organization and given penalties ranging from suspended sentences to 10 years in prison
two women were acquitted. a man and a woman were convicted on the lesser charge of brigandage and were given 18-month suspended sentences
defendants had frequently interrupted the two-week trial with shouts and demonstrations. the trial was concluded jan. 21 in the 14th correctional chamber of the tribunal of paris
direct action surfaced in 1979, claiming responsibility for bombings and attacks on public buildings which at first caused no casualties
later, direct action claimed responsibility for killing gen. rene audran, a french arms sales official, in 1985, and georges besse, president of the state-owned renault automobile company, in 1986
after a series of arrests last year, police said they believed that all leaders of the group were in custody
romania allowed a citizen employed as a u.n. disarmament official to return to his job and family in geneva on friday after keeping him in his communist homeland for more than two years
liviu bota, who headed the u.n. institute for disarmament research in geneva, said an ``error'' by romanian authorities prevented him from returning after he was summoned home in december 1985 for ``urgent consultations.''
speaking to reporters at the airport friday night, he would not speculate on why he was let go, but said: ``it was an error made at some level and it's over now. i'm very happy to be back in geneva.''
he said pressure by u.n. secretary-general javier perez de cuellar and others had helped
in new york, mario zamorano, a spokesman for perez de cuellar, said: ``the secretary-general, on behalf of all the u.n. staff members, is very pleased'' about bota's return
bota will retain a director-level post but his disarmament job has been taken over by another official, u.n. spokeswoman therese gastaut said
he was met by his wife sandra and jan martenson, director of the u.n. office in geneva
mrs. bota has claimed romanian authorities put her husband under round-the-clock surveillance, following him with two cars and tapping or periodically cutting off his telephone
romanian officials played ``deaf and dumb,'' insisting that bota had no legal ties with the united nations or that his u.n. contract was not valid, she said in a written statement published in geneva last month
u.n. officials intensified efforts on bota's behalf after his wife took an overdose of tranquilizers and other pills in may 1986. perez de cuellar made repeated demands for his release, and the case also was on the u.s. human rights agenda
john c. whitehead, deputy secretary of state, met with bota last week during a visit to romania. state department officials would not say whether whitehead had a role in the release
when he was called home bota had been a u.n. official for 13 years, on loan from his government, and had headed the disarmament institute since 1980
president nicolae ceausescu's government later told the united nations that bota was resigning his disarmanent post, but u.n. officials refused to accept the resignation unless it was submitted in person
he was not allowed to do so and the romanian government later accused him of espionage
there have been other cases in which u.n. officials from the soviet bloc were detained during visits to their homelands and u.n. intervention had no effect
one of the most publicized cases was that of alicja wesolowska, a u.n. secretary in new york who was detained on a visit to poland. she was sentenced to seven years in prison in 1979 on charges of spying for a nato nation that was not identified
percy stultz, an east german employe of the paris-based u.n. educational, scientific and cultural organization, was arrested in march 1980 while visiting his country and convicted of ``anti-state'' activities
both ms. wesolowska and stultz eventually were freed from prison, but both have been confined to their contries
the dollar soared in value friday against most major currencies around the world after the government reported that the u.s. trade deficit shrank for the second consecutive month in december
gold prices rose. at republic national bank in new york, the late bid for the precious metal was $445.50 a troy ounce, up $5 from thursday
we've got the excitement at last,'' said james o'neill, an economist and currency analyst for marine midland bank. ``within 30 seconds that the trade numbers came out there was an immediate adjustment (upward).''
the commerce department said friday that the nation's merchandise trade shortfall shrank to $12.2 billion in december from $13.2 billion in the previous month, as exports jumped 4.2 percent
the december gap was the smallest since a $11.9 billion deficit in january 1987 and much lower than market analysts had predicted
the dollar had risen about two yen and it was up around two cents against the british pound and the swiss franc shortly after the trade report was released, according to o'neill
later in the day, though, some profit-taking and a reluctancy to hold dollar positions through the long washington's birthday holiday weekend helped pushed the american currency off its highs, traders said
even though the numbers are good nobody wants to go home sitting on dollars because all the old fears haven't dissipated,'' said o'neill, ``those fears being that the trade deficit is still too big and that the dollar may have to fall further to get rid of it.''
the dollar's protracted decline in value began more than two years ago as a result of coordinated efforts by the united states and its main trading partners to improve the u.s. trade picture and avoid protectionist legislation. in in the past several weeks, however, the dollar's value has been relatively stable
gary dorsch, senior money market analyst for lns financial group inc., said the dollar also was helped friday by a rise in interest rates in the credit markets. he said dealers believe the federal reserve won't move to push rates lower in order to prevent the dollar from falling
rising interest rates tend to support a currency because they attract foreign investors eager to buy higher-yielding u.s. securities
the dollar rose above 130 japanese yen for the first time since mid-december, trading at 131.15 yen in london from 129.95 earlier in tokyo, and up from 129.03 yen in tokyo on wednesday. tokyo markets were closed for a national holiday
later, in new york, the dollar stood at 130.925 yen, up from 129.265 late thursday
the british pound fell to $1.7401 from $1.7595 late thursday in london. sterling fetched $1.74175, down from $1.76075 in new york and the highest level since late november
other late dollar rates in new york, compared with late thursday's rates, included: 1.7115 west german marks, up from 1.69085; 1.4087 swiss francs, up from 1.3895; 1.26445 canadian dollars, unchanged; 5.7820 french francs, up from 5.7210; and 1,260.75 italian lire, up from 1,248.20
late dollar rates in europe compared with thursday: 1.7123 west german marks, up from 1.6885; 1.4065 swiss francs, up from 1.3870; 5.7865 french francs, up from 5.7135; 1.9225 dutch guilders, up from 1.8961; 1.2624 canadian dollars, down from 1.2663; and 1,260.75 italian lire, up from 1,246.65
on the new york commodity exchange, gold bullion for current delivery closed at $445.30 a troy ounce, up from $440.00 late thursday
earlier, in london, gold rose to a late bid price of $443 an ounce from $441.50. in zurich, gold gained $2.50 to $443.50 an ounce
gold closed in hong kong at a bid of $443.69 an ounce, down from $443.93
silver prices also moved higher. at the new york comex, silver bullion for current delivery traded at $6.370 a troy ounce, up from $6.295 late thursday. in london, gold closed at a late bid price of $6.34 an ounce, compared with $6.31
the environmental agency hasn't proven it can legally authorize the retail sale of small amounts of the pesticide chlordane as part of a deal to ultimately take the anti-termite chemical off the market, a federal judge said friday
the agency's latest court filing does not satisfy federal law which requires the epa to determine that a pesticide will not unreasonably harm the environment, said u.s. district judge louis f. oberdorfer
the epa believes that chlordane causes cancer. to avoid a protracted battle with 197 distributors, the agency has agreed to let them sell chlordane already in stock. in return, the companies are argeeing to cancellation of their licenses to sell the pesticide
oberdorfer, however, said the epa had produced no evidence to back its assertion that distribution of remaining stocks won't cause undue harm
the lawyer representing the epa, steven rogers, argued that insisting on the use of the procedures in the law would in the end mean less environmental protection in this case because distributors could fight the revocation of their licenses and continue selling chlordane products during what could become protracted hearings
the judge asked the national coalition against the misuse of pesticides to submit a draft order declaring use of remaining stocks of chlordane illegal, but he gave no indication of when he might rule. the coalition and others have been seeking such an order since october
it is unclear whether the order will make a difference. no one knows how much chlordane distributors have, though the epa says it believes the amount is very small
the epa concluded last year that excessive chlordane residues can remain in a home even after proper application. generally, chlordane is injected under pressure into soil around the foundation
the only manufacturer of chlordane, velsicol chemical corp., and the epa agreed last august that velsicol would no longer sell it while the company tries to come up with an acceptable application method
the company and the epa later agreed to end use of velsicol's inventories, but the stocks of companies using chlordane in their own products weren't covered by the agreement
after the hearing, bob perliss, an epa lawyer working with rogers, said the companies had reported holding a total of about 1,700 pounds. this would be 1.6 percent of the amount in velsicol's hands in august, or a two-month supply at the then-prevalent usage rates
the head of the u.s. delegation to a review of the helsinki accords accused moscow and its allies friday of hampering progress on a final document by stalling on human rights issues
what we see now is that things are beginning either to level off or in some cases to go backward,'' warren zimmermann said at the third follow-up conference on security and cooperation in europe
textual obligations are festooned with loopholes that deprive them of all force,'' zimmermann told a plenary meeting, referring to soviet bloc draft proposals. ``for example, freedom of religion must be consistent with public safety, order, health and morals. other freedoms are limited by national legislation.''
zimmermann told a news conference that in the three weeks since the meeting resumed after a christmas break he noticed ``a very serious effort'' by the east bloc to put off an agreement
i hope it's tactical and i hope that it will change,'' he said
delegates from 35 countries, including the united states, canada and all european nations except albania have been meeting in vienna since november 1986 to review compliance with the 1975 helsinki accords on military security, economic cooperation and humanitarian issues
zimmermann rejected soviet bloc assertions that the west is stressing humanitarian concerns at the expense of european disarmament issues
we're not holding any element here hostage to any other element,'' zimmermann said
he also said the ``obstructionist'' approach of soviet bloc governments at the conference has been accompanied by ``disquieting'' signs of failure of those same governments to observe helsinki commitments at home
zimmermann noted that a soviet promise to release all ``religious prisoners'' in an amnesty last november was not kept and the elimination of psychiatric abuse is still awaited ``despite promises made as recently as yesterday.''
he said he noticed similar human rights abuses in other bloc countries, including romania and czechoslovakia
the concluding date of the conference has been postponed twice. before christmas, diplomats set the deadline for easter but some western dilopmats now say summer would be more realistic
the accords, or the 1975 helsinki final act, include commitments to honor human rights, individual freedoms, travel and other exchanges among nations. the 35 signatory nations promised to honor the covenant's provisions but the accords have no enforcement mechanism
a winter storm friday stretched across the midwest through new england, dumping more than a foot of snow and unleashing strong wind as schools, offices and roads were closed. at least 18 traffic deaths were blamed on the storm
as much as 13 inches of snow were measured at woodstock, n.y., with up to a foot reported across the catskills. brattleboro, vt., had 9 inches and up to a foot fell across berkshire county in massachusetts. up to a foot of snow fell on parts of michigan and indiana
wind gusting to 45 mph lashed shaftsbury, vt., piling up snow drifts of three to six feet. several power outages were reported across bennington county
in connecticut, snow was heavy at times before changing to sleet and freezing rain. snowfall ranged from an inch along the coast to 11 inches across the northwest hills
concord, n.h., had 6 inches of new snow in six hours and 13 total inches on the ground. the snow forced several presidential candidates to cancel campaign appearances. new hampshire had wind gusting to 60 mph
up to 2 feet of snow were expected overnight in maine
snow and rain made conditions slushy in new york city on friday. as much as 8 to 12 inches of snow fell over northwest new jersey
rainshowers were scattered from the coasts of virginia and delaware into eastern north carolina. sleet and snow were reported at national airport in washington, d.c. snow was reported as far south as central mississippi and alabama
the weather was mild across much of the nation west of the rockies. temperatures were in the 40s and 50s across the pacific northwest with 20s and 30s in the higher elevations
temperatures rose into the 60s and 70s in southern california and the desert southwest
the nation's low friday was 32 degrees below zero at hibbing, minn., and duluth, minn., the city's record low for the date. other record lows included el dorado, ariz., with 11 degrees, paducah, ky., with 2 degrees and st. cloud, minn., with 27 degrees below zero
temperatures around the nation at 2 p.m. est ranged from 0 degrees at warroad, minn., to 82 degress at santee near san diego
the forecast for saturday called for widespread snow from the upper ohio valley and lower great lakes through new england. snow will be heavy at times across parts of central new england from northeast new york state across much of vermont and new hampshire into western maine. rain or snow showers will be scattered across central and eastern montana. rainshowers will be widely scattered across northern washington state. skies will be mostly sunny or partly cloudy across the rest of the nation. highs will be in the 30s or 40s across much of the nation. highs will be in the teens and 20s throughout the great lakes region and ohio valley into central new england. highs will be in the 50s and 60s from oregon and the central pacific coast region through the southern rockies, the high plains as far north as eastern wyoming and western south dakota, the southern plains and lower mississippi valley into florida. highs will reach into the 70s from southern california through the desert southwest and parts of texas. building,m landlord can apply part of fine toward repairs.</note>
angry tenants and a banner reading ``welcome you reptile'' greeted a landlord friday when he reported to one of his buildings to serve a 15-day sentence of house arrest for failing to correct housing violations
morris gross, 77, who lives in a luxury high-rise in the brighton beach section of brooklyn, will be confined to a fifth-floor apartment in a building where tenants complain of bugs and rodents, lack of heat and hot water, and leaky ceilings
his movements will be monitored by an electronic ankle bracelet to make sure he serves his sentence
a judge convicted gross of criminal and civil contempt in december after the city department of housing preservation and development brought action against him for failing to comply with a court order to correct housing violations
he was fined $32,000 for the contempt conviction and $137,900 in civil penalties. judge ira harkavy gave him the option of spending 15 days under house arrest and putting the $137,900 toward the cost of correcting the 420 violations at the 113-unit building in the flatbush section of brooklyn
asked why gross chose house arrest, his attorney, stanley kopilow, said gross ``wanted to show to the judge and the community that this is not as bad as portrayed in the press.''
gross made no comment to the group of angry tenants who shouted at him when he walked into the lobby friday morning. the landlord, whose meals will be catered, will have a private security guard with him in the apartment during his sentence
we ask for so many things and they don't do anything,'' said tenant errol ramdeo
he said the door to the apartment where he lives with his parents is off its hinges, bathroom tiles are falling off the wall and their stove doesn't work
joyce stewart, president of the tenants' association, took a group of reporters on a tour to show them some of the violations. she pointed out a large hole in the ceiling of one apartment from which ``water comes down like crazy.''
tenant vivian murray complained of flaking paint chips, which she has discovered her 2{-year-old daughter eating
lawrence carelli, the housing agency attorney who handled the case, said there were still 400 outstanding violations in the building, some dating back five years
building superintendent sydney pilgrim said gross had spent $1 million to repair the building
we know gross is not an angel. we know he should not have let the building run down so far, but work is getting done,'' pilgrim said
ms. stewart charged that cosmetic repairs had been done on only 10 to 12 apartments. ``when you subtract that from 113 apartments, you'll see the real mccoy,'' she said
the navy acknowledged late friday that ``due to an oversight,'' the remains of a vietnam war victim had been transported from hawaii to california this week without informing the man's widow
the navy and pentagon also said they could not explain why a request by the widow to withhold public announcement of a military laboratory's identification of the remains had not been honored
the widow, erna mckinney of san diego, calif., said thursday in a telephone interview she had asked that the identification be withheld because she wanted to obtain a second opinion to verify the military's forensic work
last tuesday, the pentagon announced the army's central identification laboratory in honolulu had succeeded in identifying six sets of remains repatriated to the united states from vietnam
one of the six, the pentagon said, had been identified as navy lt. clemie mckinney, an aviator who was lost over south vietnam on april 14, 1972. mckinney, who was 26, listed his home as cleveland, ohio, at the time of his disappearance
i told them i didn't want them to release the identification because i wasn't prepared to accept the finding; that i wanted a second opinion,'' said mrs. mckinney, who contacted reporters after news stories about the pentagon's announcement appeared
and then they did it anyway. and then they're bringing in the remains and nobody told me.''
the remains of mckinney and the other five mias were transported from hawaii to travis air force base, calif., on thursday
since mckinney was a navy officer, navy officials were responsible for dealing with his next-of-kin
lt. col. keith schneider, a pentagon spokesman, said friday that navy casualty assistance officers had earlier informed mrs. mckinney of the procedures that would be followed for transporting the remains
unfortunately, due to an oversight, the transportation arrangements were not confirmed to her before the public announcement,'' schneider said after consulting with navy officials
the spokesman said he did not know why mrs. mckinney's request to withhold public announcement of the identification was not honored
all i can say is that we routinely abide by the family's desires on that point,'' schneider said. ``if we had been aware of that request here (at the pentagon), we would have made sure the identification was not released publicly
regretably, there were misunderstandings or misinterpretations in this case and we're now working with the family to remedy those. we will work very closely with the next-of-kin to satisfy their preferences and desires.''
mrs. mckinney said she wanted to have the remains moved to another forensic scientist in colorado for detailed examination
i'm not trying not to accept their identification,'' she said. ``i'm just not ready to accept some of their evidence. and that's why i didn't want their identification announced yet.''
although the work of the army's laboratory has been verified for the most part, there have been instances in which independent scientists concluded the laboratory did not have sufficient evidence to justify a finding of positive identification. to update with fund-raiser beginning</note>
president reagan helped raise more than $500,000 in political funds friday at a gathering of republican high-rollers, demonstrating he is still a big drawing card for the gop
the president and first lady nancy reagan were the featured attraction at a reception at the bel-air mansion of millionaire-businessman david murdock
the affair behind the walls of murdock's spacious estate was closed to reporters. among the dignitaries seen entering were sen. pete wilson, r-calif., who is up for re-election this year, and california's republican gov. george deukmejian
before leaving the white house, the president was briefed by colin powell, his national security adviser, about two u.s. navy warships being deliberately bumped by two soviet warships in the black sea
sunny skies and warm temperatures greeted reagan in los angeles, in contrast to the fog and cold he left behind in washington
more than 50 couples paid $10,000 each to sip champagne and have their picture taken with reagan and his wife nancy during their 45-minute appearance
the fund-raiser was reagan's only scheduled event in california. on saturday, he will fly to a pacific resort of mazatlan, mexico, for afternoon talks with president miguel de la madrid, then travel to his mountaintop ranch near santa barbara, calif., for a four-night stay
reagan's political director, frank donatelli, said that with less than three weeks' notice, there was no trouble lining up big-money contributors eager to mix with the president, who was wounded by the iran-contra affair and has only 11 months left in office
the president will always be able to be a good fund-raiser,'' donatelli said
the money will go to the california republican party. reagan will hold another fund-raiser later this year to help the re-election campaign of sen. pete wilson, r-calif., donatelli said
he said california is ``one of our top targets this year.'' with its late primary, the state could play a decisive role in the republican presidential race. with 47 electoral votes at stake, the most of any state, it will be a major battlefield for the november election
a strong, well-financed republican party will be a benefit to whoever the nominee is,'' donatelli said
reagan, at a gathering of republican conservatives thursday night, pledged to ``campaign vigorously for whoever our nominee is.''
reporters were excluded from the fund-raiser at the home of murdock, who lives on the estate once owned by the late hotel magnate conrad hilton
a real estate tycoon, murdock also is chairman of the los angeles-based castle &amp; cooke inc., which has revenues of more than $1 billion and is best known for its subsidiary, dole food co., the pineapple and banana distributor
on saturday, reagan will meet with de la madrid in mazatlan, a resort area troubled by drug-related violence
a senior administration official who briefed reporters in advance of the reagan-de la madrid meeting said both mexico and the united states are critical of the other's handling of the drug problem
the mexican perception is that we are the world's largest market for drugs _ cocaine, marijuana and heroin _ and that we are not doing enough to reduce the consumption of dangerous drugs in the united states,'' said the official, who spoke on condition he not be identified
at the same time, he said, the administration believes mexico is making increasing, but still inadequate, efforts to fight drug trafficking. ``the flow of drugs is increasing ... and, in our view, the amount of the drug-related corruption is growing,'' he said
ireland's prime minister said after a chilly meeting with margaret thatcher on friday he was not satified with the british attitude in a dispute over police conduct in northern ireland
british officials said the 30-minute meeting between prime minister thatcher and charles haughey of ireland was ``calm and dignified,'' but an irish statement said haughey ``could not regard the present response of the british government in the areas of principal concern as satisfactory.''
the statement said haughey was still waiting for ``an adequate response'' to irish protests made at an inter-governmental meeting feb. 2
friday's meeting was the first between the two leaders since britain acknowledged on jan. 25 that there was evidence of a coverup after police in the british province killed six unarmed roman catholics in three separate incidents in 1982
britain said there would be no prosecutions. there are fears the affair could damage the anglo-irish agreement, which is aimed at bolstering the catholic minority's confidence in british justice in northern ireland
mrs. thatcher expressed her belief that the anglo-irish agreement must continue, as therein lies the future,'' a british spokesman said after the meeting, referring to the 1985 pact giving the irish republic a consultative role in northern ireland affairs. he spoke on condition of anonymity following government practice
the killings of five irish nationalist guerrillas and a teen-ager prompted charges that police had a shoot-to-kill policy. an investigation found no evidence of official shoot-to-kill tactics, but said officers lied and tried to cover up their practices
at friday's meeting, mrs. thatcher said the decision not to prosecute was not influenced by her administration, since it was made by the director of public prosecutions, who is not a member of the government
it was endorsed and announced, however, by solicitor-general sir patrick mayhew, a cabinet member. he said prosecutions would not promote ``national security'' or be in the ``public interest.''
mrs. thatcher promised haughey that tom king, her minister for northern ireland, would make a statement soon about the ``organizational implications'' of the affair, the british spokesman said
this was interpreted as a suggestion that britain is considering changes in the royal ulster constablulary, which draws most of its personnel from the protestant majority
king has said disciplinary action could be taken against officers involved in the affair
haughey and mrs. thatcher met during an emergency economic summit of the 12-nation european economic community
doc whitehead is a yapping yuppie, a 14-month-old lakeland terrier whose paw print carries purchasing power
his owners, kenneth and susan whitehead, gave him his own bank account, and the distinctive paw-print signature has paid for a parking ticket and a custom-made dog tag
doc got his picture in the london standard newspaper on friday, along with a photo of one of his checks
the paper said garrard, the crown jewelers in london, accepted doc's 5.75-pound ($10) check in payment for the dog tag
normally we would not accept a check from a new client who is a minor,'' the jeweler was quoted as telling the whiteheads. ``however ... we are prepared to accept your personal guarantee of doc's creditworthiness.''
mrs. whitehead was quoted as saying that doc got account at the westminster bank branch in southall, west london, ``so he could buy his own toys,'' but he had to pay a parking ticket while out shopping
doc was responsible for us parking where we did, so when we got a ticket, he paid the penalty,'' she was quoted as saying. ``the check was initially sent back with a note saying there was no signature, but when i pointed out that the paw print was the signature, there was no problem.'' quote and dole-robertson meeting</note>
rep. jack kemp on friday accused pat robertson's rival gop presidential campaign of ``deliberate distortions,'' and won a standing ovation from conservatives when he lectured the former television evangelist on the need to obey the ten commandments
i can't insist that all candidates abide by ronald reagan's 11th commandment'' not to speak ill of another republican, kemp said in an address to the conservative political action committee
but all of us should abide by the ninth commandment: thou shalt not bear false witness,'' he said to prolonged cheers
robertson was scheduled to address the group immediately after kemp, but bad weather grounded his airplane in new hampshire and prevented his appearance
but his campaign issued a statement calling the congressman's charges ``totally unfounded.'' connie snapp, an aide, said, ``contrary to the charges, we have investigated and found that no robertson staff member was involved in the distribution of the material in question.''
in merrimack, n.h., robertson said: ``we didn't put out any of this stuff he's talking about. ... it's ridiculous what he's talking about.''
meantime, robertson and sen. bob dole of kansas, staying at the same hotel, met for 30 minutes friday night. asked whether they were striking a deal, dole said: ``we just had a nice, pleasant chat and a cup of coffee. he feels good about his chances. i feel good about mine.''
when asked if he would want to inherit robertson's supporters if robertson is defeated, dole responded: ``i said we ought to put out the melcome mat. these are good people. they're looking for a party to join in many cases.''
kemp's demand that robertson repudiate a television commercial being aired by his campaign as well as fliers distributed in early primary and caucus states reflected the stakes involved in the early stages of the gop presidential campaign. kemp's bid to emerge as a clear conservative alternative to vice president george bush and dole has been damaged by robertson's surprising showing in the iowa caucuses and in other states, making next tuesday's new hampshire primary a critical test
thus, while kemp said at a news conference that the republicans would be taking a ``step backward'' if they nominated either the vice president or the kansas senator, he saved his sharpest words for robertson
kemp avoided leveling an accusation of dirty tricks personally against robertson, but said the former minister's campaign was guilty of ``deliberate distortions.''
i would like him to call off the flier and the ad,'' he said following his speech. ``i would expect a response from pat.''
kemp's anger was generated by printed material saying he was soft on pornography and suggesting that a member of his family had had an abortion. ``it's a lie,'' mary brunette, a kemp aide, said of the abortion suggestion. ``there is absolutely no truth in it whatsoever.''
distributed to fundamentalist christian voters in iowa, new hampshire and minnesota, the material purports to reproduce ratings of the republican candidates by the biblical scoreboard, which is published by biblical news service
jack waldron, editor of the news service, said the material was altered and he described it as ``a malicious, nasty, underhanded attempt to smear men who are running for president and an obvious affront and attack on biblical news service.''
the new york congressman also complained about a robertson television commercial that cited a study by washington econometrics forecasting services saying that robertson had the best economic proposal of all the contenders and kemp had one that would bring on a depression
the commercial cites a wall street journal story on the forecast, but kemp said the newspaper's coverage amounted to ridicule since it placed the report ``in a humor section.''
in addition, the journal printed an editorial on feb. 5 denouncing the use of its story in the television commercial
kemp, in his formal remarks, said he had welcomed robertson's followers into the ranks of the republican party
but the contribution ceases to be positive, the cause and values that we represent are tarnished when such deliberate distortions are permitted to persist,'' he said
leftist guerrillas exploded dynamite under a troop truck on a mountain highway friday, killing 10 soldiers and wounding 14, officials said
president alan garcia confirmed the attack by guerrillas believed to belong to the mao-inspired shining path organization, which has been fighting for eight years to topple the government and establish a marxist state
an army official, speaking on condition of anonymity, later said two of those killed were officers and several of the wounded were badly hurt
in violence elsewhere friday, a marxist university professor considered ideologically aligned to shining path was shot and killed in ayacucho, police said
garcia told reporters in lima the guerrillas set off dynamite near the highland state capital of huanuco as the troop truck passed
the explosion nearly totally destroyed the vehicle,'' said marino mesa, a correspondent for radio programas, peru's leading news station, in a live broadcast from huanuco
mesa said the attack occurred 15 miles outside of huanuco, which lies 185 miles east of lima
the soldiers were en route to repair a bridge destroyed during torrential rains on the eastern slopes of the andes
five hooded assailants killed professor rafael alarcon, 47, after locking two of his children, aged 13 and 15, in another bedroom, police said
at the time of the pre-dawn attack, alarcon's wife and four other children were in lima, 230 miles northwest of ayacucho
alarcon was a philosophy professor at the university of huamanga in ayacucho, where he was known as a marxist who reflected the views of the shining path, police said
the assailants escaped. police refused to speculate about their identity and said an investigation was under way
the attack follows an upsurge of violence this week by rebels, who shot and killed four policemen and the wife of one of the officers, and five state telephone workers
the government says more than 10,000 people have died in the shining path insurgency. human rights groups say hundreds of the dead were non-combatants caught in the crossfire between rebels and government forces
a state official is being asked to help serve the elusive walker railey, a former dallas minister, with a wrongful death suit that accuses him of trying to choke his wife to death
railey's mother-in-law, billie jo nicolai filed an amended suit thursday asking the secretary of state to assist in notifying railey of the suit
margaret ``peggy'' railey, 39, has been in a coma since she was choked in the garage of the railey's home last year. police say they have not identified her attacker, but railey's attorney has said his client is a suspect
railey, former senior pastor at dallas' first united methodist church, is accused in the suit of trying to kill his wife by strangling her with a cord. the suit asks for an unspecified amount of money, medical care and damages
railey moved to san francisco late last year
we're still attempting to serve him (with notice of the suit) personally, but we haven't been able to find him,'' said a.w. arnold ii, mrs. nicolai's attorney
arnold said he is making use of a texas law that allows him to appoint the secretary of state as the agent for serving the suit
the secretary of state's office is required by the ``long arm'' statute to serve railey with the suit by certified or registered mail, said lorna wassdorf, head of statutory filing for the office
we don't determine if the service is valid,'' ms. wassdorf said friday
three former police officers who pleaded guilty to federal corruption, racketeering and cocaine trafficking charges were each sentenced friday to 30 years in prison and $350,000 in fines
armando estrada, 28, roman rodriguez, 31, and arturo de la vega, 28, were among the original seven miami police defendants whose first trial ended in a hung jury last year
in all, more than 70 of the department's 1,033 officers have been arrested, fired or suspended since the investigation of corruption began three years ago
u.s. district judge kenneth l. ryskamp told the three during the sentencing hearing that they shamed their entire profession during the sentencing hearing
when i was a boy i thought a police officer must be the highest calling ... but young people today have the perception of a police officer as one who is corrupt,'' he said
miami police chief clarence dickson, however, said the officers arrested do not reflect on the integrity of his department. ``the majority of the men and women on the streets are honest, upstanding cops.''
a fourth defendant, ricardo aleman, who was convicted on narcotics and tax counts last year, was given a delay in sentencing until feb. 26. . correcting party name to febrerista, not ferbrerista; updating with actions involving opposition, observers at elections, catholic church opposition. no pickup.</note>
they have no campaign posters, no television ads, little money and virtually no chance of beating gen. alfredo stroessner in sunday's presidential elections, but two opposition candidates refuse to step aside
luis maria vega of the radical liberal party and carlos ferreira ibarra of the liberal party are bucking calls to boycott the election and challenging stroessner in his quest for an eighth straight term
with the powerful infrastructure of the governing colorado party at his disposal and the full support of the military, the 75-year-old president who took power in a military coup is almost certain to be re-elected
in the last elections in 1983, he won 90.1 percent of the vote
vega, 65, and ferreira, 54, are hardly being taken seriously and have been sharply criticized by other opposition leaders, who urged voters to cast blank ballots as a protest against stroessner
they know all too well that not even in their dreams will they obtain the presidengues,'' kiely said
the agency provides assistance to palestinian refugees in the middle east
the u.s. embassy will provide $25,000 to help victims of floods and mudslides that killed at least 196 people and left more than 10,000 homeless in rio de janeiro state, it was announced friday
u.s. consul-general louis schwartz will give a check for that amount to gov. wellington moreira franco on saturday, the consulate's press office reported
it said the money is the total amount in the embassy's emergency fund. such funds are provided by the u.s. government to its embassies around the world
in addition to the embassy fund, the united states has offered to provide brazil with emergency supplies
most of the money is expected to go to petropolis, a mountain resort 40 miles north of rio de janeiro city. civil defense officials said friday that 12 days of rains caused flooding and landslides that killed 163 people in petropolis and left 3,947 people homeless
u.s. consular officials visited petropolis to check on the families of two u.s. citizens living there and found they were not seriously affected, the press office said
other countries that have offered brazil aid supplies include britain, france, italy and nicaragua
three calvin college science professors who taught evolution instead of the biblical version of creation were sharply criticized in a report released friday by trustees of the private college
but the report, which followed a yearlong investigation by a study committee, called for no sanctions against the professors and concluded that their teachings fell within guidelines set by the christian reformed church for interpretation of the bible
the report was ``very critical in a studied, careful, pastoral way'' of the professors' writings and teachings, said the rev. charles de ridder, chairman of the board
it was supportive of the professors' concern for exploring theories other than creationism, but de ridder said the panel ``reminds the professors of the limitations that the guidelines place upon the interpretation of the bible.''
the board said those guidelines allow the teachings of such theories as evolution, but that they ``ought to be evaluated in terms of the christian faith,'' said gordon van harn, provost of the college
the study committee was formed in response to dozens of critical letters about the professors from students, faculty, church members and others, de ridder said
the professors, clarence menninga and davis young of the geology department and howard van till of the physics department, who have a combined 52 years at calvin, did not attend the board's news conference
however, van till said in a statement that he respected the board for ``recognizing the need for academic freedom'' and that the report contains both ``criticism and praise and speaks of both caution and encouragement.''
the committee ``urges me to refine my interpretative methods in such a way that neither the `event character' nor the revelational meaning of biblical history will be called into question,'' he said
the professors describe themselves as loyal, longtime members of the 300,000-member, grand rapids-based christian reformed church, which owns calvin. update with bush comments. picks up 13th graf pvs bgng: haig's greatest ...</note>
alexander m. haig jr. ended his quixotic quest for the presidency friday, endorsing kansas sen. bob dole and attacking vice president george bush as no more than a spectator in reagan administration councils
asked his opinion of bush's involvement in important decision-making, the former secretary of state said bush had merely ``been there, period.''
more than 200 reporters and at least 30 television cameras were in the room for haig's announcement, by far the most coverage he received at any time in his year-long campaign. he withdrew from the race for the republican presidential nomination at a news conference on a day when a snowstorm played havoc with the schedules of the remaining candidates
he opened by saying his assessment of the race had made it clear that ``al haig will not be the 1988 republican nominee.''
haig received less than 1 percent of the vote in the iowa precinct caucuses on monday and was receiving only about 1 percent support in polls of republican voters in new hampshire
he endorsed dole as the candidate who ``embodies best my understanding of the crucial challenges we face.''
dole appeared briefly at haig's side to say the endorsement ``means a great deal to me personally'' and that the former nato commander had told him he wanted no role in a dole administration
while free with his praise of dole, haig seemed to relish even more his attacks on bush
what have you got against george bush?'' haig was asked
not a single thing in terms of george bush,'' he replied. ``he's a friend, i've known him for 20 years.''
but he went on to say that he had worked with both men for two decades and ``from my point of view, bob dole is head and shoulders above george bush as a potential president.''
most important of all,'' he said, dole exceeds bush in ``the demeanor, the internal strength, the ability to deal eyeball to eyeball with those who do not share our values around the world.''
bush later phoned wkne in keene to boast that he won the immediate endorsement of state rep. edward bennett of bridgewater, one of haig's three state co-chairman
then on manchester television, bush said bennett ``thinks that i'm head and shoulders above bob dole.''
haig's greatest contribution to the dole campaign may well have come earlier, during televised debates when he pressed bush on his role in the iran-contra affair and asked him if he had been ``in the cockpit or ... on an economy ride in the back of the plane'' as vice president
when asked friday about reports of bush involvement with panamanian strongman gen. manuel antonio noriega, haig said, ``i do think there's been less than forthright discussion of this issue by the vice president.''
haig withdrew four days before the new hampshire primary, and when asked about the timing he replied in a sentence typical of what had become known during his public career as haigspeak:
it takes a bit of arrogance to be so ego-involved in a campaign such as this that you want to take the few percentage points that could be critical to another candidate to the political graveyard
i'm not that way. i want to make a difference.''
as a candidate, the 63-year-old retired general who had announced last year he was ``throwing my helmet into the ring'' was often openly critical of reagan administration domestic and foreign policies
speaking with the authority of having been reagan's first secretary of state, haig has criticized the president's approach in the persian gulf and also has opposed the inf treaty to eliminate medium-range missiles from europe
on domestic issues, he has said the record federal budget deficits of the reagan years stemmed, in part, from the policies pursued by the administration, making him the only candidate other than dole to lay some of the blame somewhere other than on congress
in campaign appearances haig was fond of saying he had served under seven presidents and recalling his strong role as chief of staff in the white house during the final months of richard m. nixon's presidency
at a republican dinner in nashua wednesday night he quipped, ``i'm the only one (of the gop candidates) who's been president before and i liked it.''
the government accused foreign media friday of a disinformation campaign and said a report that ethiopian troops killed at least 20 civilians at a drought relief camp was ``unfounded.''
fanatics of one calling or another have in recent months tried to disrupt the relief distribution efforts and their accomplices continue to fabricate such unfounded allegations,'' said the relief and rehabilitation commission, the government agency responsible for drought relief
this latest unfounded report is just another instance,'' the commission said in a statement
foreign relief sources in ethiopia said thursday that ethiopian troops opened fire on thousands of drought victims when civilians resisted forced resettlement. twenty people were killed and many others wounded, the sources said, speaking on condition of anonymity
the sources said the shootings occurred monday at the northern town of korem in tigray province, 525 miles north of the capital, addis ababa
no one in his right mind can imagine that any responsible person can commit such an atrocity against drought victims,'' the commission said
the commission said it had stated repeatedly that the resettlement program was voluntary
tigray and its northern neighbor, eritrea, are the hardest hit by a drought that threatens more than 5 million ethiopians with starvation. drought in the northern regions has been exacerbated by a civil war in eritrea
ethiopia's marxist government began the resettlement program in november 1984 with a goal of moving 1.5 million people from the overpopulated, drought-ravaged north to unused, fertile land in the south and west
at least 600,000 people were resettled before the government halted the program in february 1986 amid charges from the west that people were being forced to move, sometimes at gunpoint. critics said the government's aim is to depopulate the north, which is home to two rebel movements
ethiopia resumed resettlement nov. 25, promising the program would be voluntary and humane
network polls released friday showed vice president george bush and sen. bob dole neck-in-neck for new hampshire's republican primary, with one poll putting dole ahead and the other giving bush the edge
an abc news-washington post poll taken thursday night showed bush with 32 percent to dole's 26 percent. that was an increase over the vice president's 33 percent to 29 percent edge in polling tuesday, the network said
but cbs news reported that its latest poll, taken wednesday and thursday, gave the kansas senator 32 percent to bush's 29 percent. the network said polling tuesday and wednesday had bush on top, 35 percent to 27 percent
in both polls, massachusetts gov. michael dukakis maintained a strong lead in the democratic race. abc reported he was the choice of 36 percent while rep. richard gephardt of missouri had 19 percent and sen. paul simon of illinois 17 percent
cbs had dukakis at 39 percent, with gephardt at 16 percent and simon 14 percent. all other democratic candidates received less than 10 percent
among the other republican candidates, abc put rep. jack kemp and pat robertson at 12 percent each and former delaware gov. pete du pont at 10 percent. cbs had kemp at 12 percent, robertson at 10 percent and dupont at 7 percent
the cbs poll was based on interviews with 499 republicans and 466 democrats. the margine of error was 4 percentage points on the gop side and 5 percentage points on the democratic said
the abc-washington post poll interviewed 575 democrats and 559 republicans. the margin of error was 5 percentage points on both sides
about 500 people demonstrated outside the headquarters of an electric power company in southwestern japan friday protesting a test at a nuclear power reactor
some of the demonstrators had stayed overnight at the site after attending a rally thursday that police said drew 1,500 people
the protesters at the headquarters in takamatsu of the shikoku elecric power co. opposed an output test at the company's nuclear reactor at ikata that was conducted friday
takamatsu is 340 miles southwest of tokyo and ikata is 115 miles southwest of takamatsu
sueaki maekawa, a member of a local anti-nuclear group, said, ``the protest action was initiated by ordinary people, such as housewives, who have no affiliation with big organizations. it is really encouraging.''
police spokesman yasunori aya said about 300 police officers were sent to the demonstration friday to keep order. the protesters were ``noisy but not violent'' and there were no arrests, he said
a shikoku company official said that in the test, the reactor's output was reduced by 50 percent over a period of three hours. the official, speaking with the condition he not be identified, said the test was made to collect data on rapid reactor output shifts dealing with the fluctuating demand for power
protesters said the test was similar to one conducted at the chernobyl nuclear power complex in the soviet union on april 26, 1986 that resulted in a fire and the world's worst nuclear accident. the soviets said at least 31 people perished from the fire or radiation
the company official said the tests were different. he said the soviets tried to stop the turbine completely and the japanese test only involved a 50 percent cutback
he said the soviets also disconnected safety devices at the chernobyl plant, while the devices at the ikata reactor remained in operation
the kyodo news service quoted soichiro ito, director-general of science and technology agency, as saying there was was no cause for concern about the safety of the test
bus drivers and mechanics overwhelmingly approved a contract proposal friday night to end an 11-day strike that had left 90,000 daily riders without public transportation
the board that runs the queen city metro transit system also approved the tentative agreement and hoped to restore bus service by sunday morning
strikes are tough. ... i hope we can mend those fences,'' said robert baker, president of the striking local 627 of the amalgamated transit union
negotiators concluded an all-night bargaining session friday morning by announcing they had reached a compromise agreement. the three-year proposal gives the union greater job security and wage increases of about 5 percent the first year and 4 percent each of the two final years, baker said
baker said union leadership urged passage of the settlement, which was approved at a union meeting by a 465-40 margin
the strike against the queen city metro transit agency began feb. 2 over wages and the company's proposal to use part-time employees to supplement regular workers during peak transit hours. the union, which represents about 750 bus drivers, mechanics and clerks, strongly objected to part-time employees in the belief they pose a threat to the jobs of full-time employees
a top-scale bus driver made $12.17 an hour, under the old contract. queen city metro says drivers were making about $30,000 a year when routine overtime was figured in
a group of 30 prominent intellectuals appealed to communist authorities to respect the right of free association, but the state-run pap news agency called their petition unnecessary
in a commentary on its english-language service released late thursday, pap said the appeal's ``postulates seem to be somewhat belated, like trying to pry open doors which are already open.''
it said the signers ``do not take notice of ... very important changes which have occurred and continue to occur in poland's socio-political life,'' including a relaxation of censorship to allow public debates on ``practically all internal problems.''
in december, the polish united workers (communist) party approved a package of political reforms that includes a pledge to ease curbs on forming independent associations
however, a new law on associations has not been passed yet, and authorities have blocked efforts to form some independent groups such as the economic society, a lobbying group favoring private enterprise
the intellectuals' petition was submitted to parliament on feb. 1 and was made public this week
the appeal said it is ``impossible to start overcoming (poland's) crisis without real, and not only declarative, respect for the citizens' right to free association.'' it said every citizen should have the right to demand changes in the law without being punished for doing so
the signers included 11 full members of the prestigious polish academy of science; warsaw university rector grzegorz bialkowski; former solidarity economic adviser ryszard bugaj; and the economic society's chairman, aleksander paszynski
a british group said friday it could not afford to buy a secondhand spitfire for a new world war ii museum in france
more than 20,000 of the famous british fighters were built and saw service from 1938-1954. the wartime cost of a spitfire was 5,000 pounds _ then about $24,000
there aren't many spitfires left and when the french asked us to try to get one, we were told the cost would be 300,000 pounds ($522,000) or more. we couldn't face up to that,'' said lt. gen. sir ian harris
haris' british support committee for the memorial museum of the battle of normandy at caen is now trying to raise the equivalent of $87,000 to buy a secondhand typhoon fighter-bomber
it's not a bad substitute,'' harris said
harris, 77, was the first british regimental commander to enter caen on july 9, 1944. he spoke at a news conference to announce his committee's appeal for a total of $261,000 for the museum
the money will pay for british war relics ranging from a churchill tank to a miniature radio transmitter used by intelligence agents landed before the invasion of france on june 6, 1944
it's somewhat disconcerting that while it was british troops who first entered caen, other countries whose forces were never in the city are giving the museum substantially more importance and support than we are,'' harris said
he said that in the united states, for example, 300,000 members of a normandy society plan to support the museum project
troops from germany and 11 allied countries fought in the 78-day battle around caen, and nearly 300,000 soldiers were killed
caen, 115 miles west of paris, suffered 10,000 civilian deaths
caen mayor jean-marie girault flew to london for the news conference at the imperial war museum
he said france is spending nearly $21 million on the museum that will be opened on the june 6 anniversary
the nations involved in the battle have been invited to send representatives for the opening, the mayor said
he said those countries were france, east and west germany, belgium, britain, canada, czechoslovakia, greece, luxembourg, the netherlands, norway, poland and the united states
vice president george bush campaigned in a snow-bound condominium complex friday, telling reporters he didn't believe his candidacy would be hurt by alexander haig's endorsement of sen. bob dole
haig, who dropped out of the republican race, called dole ``head and shoulders above'' bush as a potential president
bush phoned leslie doppler, wkne news director in keene, to boast that he won the immediate endorsement of state rep. edward bennett of bridgewater, one of haig's three state co-chairman
later on manchester television, bush said bennett ``thinks that i'm head and shoulders above bob dole.''
i think we can pull it out here,'' bush said as he continued to compare the race to 1980 when ronald reagan lost iowa and won new hampshire and the nomination
as bush, his wife, and gov. john sununu, his state chairman, holed up in the clarion somerset hotel, his campaign staff scrambled to find voters and photo and visual opportunities nearby
about an hour before dark, when at least a foot of snow had accumulated, bush declared that he ``had a touch of cabin fever,'' emerged with his secret service agents and staff, and led an entourage of about 35 on an hour-long forced march through the adjacent somerset condominium project
at first bush insisted he was headed for a shopping mall, until his wife, barbara, told him he knew the stores were closed by the storm
television crews, so bored during the day that they videotaped each other in the near white-out outside the hotel, came to life when two or three people braved the weather to shovel out their cars
bush and his staff tried to persuade condominium dwellers to let them help shovel or rescue their cars from the snow but each declined politely
sununu, who tried to entice people to allow bush to help shovel with ``come meet the vice president, come meet the vice president,'' offered the opinion that ``new hampshire people are independent.''
and bush concurred: ``only in new hampshire.'' the television crews were reduced to aiming their cameras at bush petting puppies in the arms of their masters and mistresses
a snowplow driver finally allowed the vice president to get behind the wheel of his machine, and bush drove the snowplow about 10 yards down an already-cleared road
accidents involving aeroflot flights killed 47 people last year, officials said friday
they also said the soviet national airline made $3.3 billion and transported 119 million passengers in 1987
aeroflot, which claims to be the world's largest airline, is notorious for its flight delays and poor service. officials from the ministry of civil aviation, which operates the airline, said a program was under way to improve aeroflot's standards
we people engaged in civil aviation are not satisfied with the safety and regularity (of flights) that now exist,'' said boris e. panyukov, first deputy minister of civil aviation
however, airline officials said at a news conference that aeroflot's safety record compares favorably with that of major western carriers
last year, 47 aeroflot passengers and crew members were killed in accidents, said vladimir y. potemkin, deputy chief of flight services
in the past, soviet officials were reluctant to give details of aviation accidents and casualties. but aeroflot has said that starting this year, fatality figures would be made public, a measure clearly linked to mikhail s. gorbachev's drive for ``glasnost,'' or greater openness on some issues
on jan. 18, an aeroflot jet missed the runway in the caspian port city of krasnovodsk, flipped over and broke in two. eleven people were killed and 12 others injured
the official tass news agency and the government newspaper izvestia reported the crash the same day, marking the first time a fatal soviet air accident was reported in the official media on the day it occurred
officials told reporters that aeroflot plans to replace its planes with newer models
panyukov said aeroflot will also lay off some of its 500,000 employees. he did not say how many
aeroflot, responsible for all civil aviation in the soviet union, has more than 15,000 airplanes and helicopters, he said
aeroflot officials said the carrier made about 2 billion rubles last year, the equivalent of about $3.3 billion
five rare old navigation charts on vellum, the oldest dating from about 1460, will be sold in london in april
auctioneers christie's said the charts were found recently ``in europe,'' after being hidden since the time of napoleon's campaigns
the seller's name was not disclosed
two documents are by a well-known family of chart makers, the teixeiras of portugal, and date from 1587 and 1620
the oldest chart was made in genoa about 1460 and depicts the mediterranean and mid-atlantic
another was by a dutchman and based on a portuguese model about 1600
the fifth is of the north sea and the baltic in 1588 by englishman thomas laton
the finely inked and colored charts, with flags, coats of arms and even saints, show ports in europe and africa and later in the americas. they are expected to bring from $12,000 to $87,000 each at the april 13 sale
for a long time before the french revolution the charts were owned by a flemish family, the counts of maldeghem, who were burgomasters of bruges (now in belgium),'' said sarah soames of christie's books and manuscripts department
she said laton worked in danzig, now gdansk, poland, and was probably connected with the eastland co. which traded english woolen cloth for polish grain
independent art historian huon mallalieu said after examining the charts: ``they are very rare things and would have been secret in their time because they were the valuable working tools of sailors. they show the prevailing winds and routes around the world.''
a former nurse's aide who is serving life prison terms for 34 slayings was indicted friday for the murders or attempted murders of six more patients at cincinnati's drake memorial hospital
donald harvey is expected to plead guilty to the indictments next week when he is brought to cincinnati from his lucasville state prison cell, assistant hamilton county prosecutor joseph deters said
under a continuing plea-bargain agreement with prosecutors, the new guilty pleas will not lengthen harvey's current sentence of three consecutive life terms in an ohio prison, deters said
harvey, 35, of middletown, ohio, will be eligible for parole in 60 years, prosecutors have said
the hamilton county grand jury indictment returned charges that harvey fatally poisoned two of the patients, killed another by suffocation and poisoned the three patients who survived. families of the victims have been notified, deters said
the indictment charges harvey with three counts of aggravated murder and three of attempted aggravated murder, alleging that the crimes occurred between april and november 1986. the victims were identified as patients at drake, a hamilton county-owned hospital that provides long-term care and rehabilitative services. harvey was employed at drake as a nurse's aide from february 1986 until his april 1987 arrest
authorities identified the three patients who were killed as nathaniel watson, by suffocation, and poisoning victims doris nalley and henry cody. the three who survived poisonings were identified as lawrence bernsden, willie johnson and anna hood. officials declined to provide the patients' hometowns or ages
harvey pleaded guilty last august to ohio charges that he killed 25 people, including 21 drake patients
harvey knows of more murders, his lawyer, william whalen jr. of cincinnati, said friday
we know there are more, but either they aren't establish-able or donald needs additional assistance with them,'' whalen said
but deters said he anticipates no further indictments against harvey. ``hopefully, this is the end of his story,'' he said
harvey is serving a concurrent kentucky life sentence for the deaths of nine patients at marymount hospital in london, ky., when he worked there from 1970 to 1971. second time and released; picks up 3rd graf, `a passing ...'; deletes now-redundant grafs 9-10, ``our concern ...'; picks up 11th graf, ``we've never ...'</note>
cuban officials boarded a u.s.-registered sailboat friday only hours after they released the vessel, which had been fired upon and seized the day before, a u.s. coast guard spokesman said
the three people aboard the tranquility radioed a coast guard cutter out of new orleans friday evening that they were on their way to key west, according to coast guard lt. cmdr. jim simpson in miami
the 48-foot sailboat, fired upon and seized thursday night, was released friday morning. it had sailed north-northwest some 25 miles when it was again stopped and boarded by cuban officials, simpson said
they were again released and the three people, proceeded on their way, he said
a passing merchant ship reported to the coast guard late thursday that shots were fired across the 48-foot tranquility's bow off cayo guajaba, on cuba's northern coast, simpson said
the tranquility told the merchant ship by radio that it was then taken in tow by the cuban patrol boats. reports from the state department showed the sailboat was released early friday, simpson said
crew members were two men and a woman whose names have not been released, the spokesman said
the cuban foreign ministry has stated that the tranquility had drifted into cuban waters due to a lack of wind and was assisted into the port of nuevitas, and subsequently released,'' a state department statement said
the appearance of the cuban patrol apparently frightened the sailboaters into flight. the cubans may have fired warning shots because they didn't understand why their order to halt was disobeyed, simpson said
they couldn't communicate,'' he said. ``the merchant vessel told our operations center that the people on tranquility were speaking only english and the cubans were speaking only spanish
we've never had a problem with the cubans harassing pleasure craft,'' simpson said. ``at this point we don't even know why the cubans would want to shoot at this boat.''
meanwhile, havana radio reported friday that another u.s.-registered boat, carrying 7,700 pounds of marijuana, had been seized feb. 6 in cuban waters and its four crewmen taken into custody
the cuban coast guard captured the mary near the las tunas province area in northeastern cuba, reported a radio rebelde broadcast monitored here
the arrested crew members were identified as puerto rican-born ivan lancharte ramiro, and cuban natives lazaro perez garcia, inocente hernandez lores and roberto iglesias de rojas
radio rebelde said perez and hernandez left the island illegally in 1979 and that iglesias left in 1980. all four were arrested and detained and the marijuana was burned, the radio said. the report did not specify whether the cuban natives were u.s. citizens
coast guard officials said they had no knowledge of the incident
a military spokesman said friday the armed forces will investigate allegations that high-ranking officers are involved in drug trafficking
col. manuel suarez benavides told reporters, ``this situation worries the high command, and all of us.''
we are going to investigate.''
the new york times published an article friday saying senior honduran military officers and a drug dealer linked to colombia's medellin cartel are setting up a major narcotics smuggling operation in this central american country
the times story quoted unidentified u.s. and honduran officials
asked about the allegations, suarez said: ``we don't rule them out because there are no means to refute them, nor is there proof of guilt.''
the armed forces call on the the new york times to provide the names of those honduran officers involved in the alleged drug trafficking, as well as the corresponding proof implicating officers of our army,'' he said
with the proof in hand, we will move drastically against those responsible ... and we will punish them with all the weight of the law,'' said suarez, the spokesman for the armed forces
the times article identified juan ramon matta ballesteros as a principal figure in the alleged operation. matta, a honduran, escaped from a colombian jail in 1985 and is considered a key dealer for colombian cocaine barons. he lives in tegucigalpa
matta is wanted in the united states in connection with the 1985 murder in mexico of enrique camarena salazar, a u.s. drug enforcement administration agent. honduran law does not allow extradition of honduran citizens
u.s. officials say the medellin cartel, named for the colombian city in which it is based, is responsible for more than 80 percent of the cocaine smuggled into the united states
honduran congressman roberto ramon castillo said friday the high command should report to congress on possible drug trafficking involving the army. the high command consists of the only general on active service and about 55 colonels and lieutenant colonels
castillo called on president jose azcona hoyo to investigate matta's activities. azcona heads a civilian government but the military wields great power
the congressman, from the opposition national party, suggested that representatives of the high command be called before congress to testify
he said he would form part of a congressional commission that will travel to the united states next week to discuss the accusations with u.s. congressmen, senators and reagan administration officials
radio and television stations and afternoon newspapers reported the allegations in the times article. update with final agreement, comments by thatcher, 80 percent sted 70 percent increase to poorer nations. pickup 8th pvs: `west german ...' edits thruout to trim</note>
leaders of the european economic community reached agreement early saturday on agricultural spending, ending nearly a year of deadlock, a spokesman for the executive commission said
we have an agreement on a farm package. we are having a good summit,'' european commission spokesman nico wegter told reporters at the end of the two-day meeting
the agreement came after significant concessions by prime minister margaret thatcher of britain, who had sought stringent budgetary controls to end soaring farm spending
it has been a very tough european council,'' mrs. thatcher said early saturday. ``but what is important is that for the first time we have effective and legally binding controls on expenditure.''
the accord set production limits on the most expensive crops: grains and oilseeds and proteins, with penalty price cuts for surpluses
it was the third summit attempt in eight months to solve the financial crisis. the 12-nation eec, or european common market, has operated without a budget since december
proposals endorsed by west germany, current president of the eec, envisaged looser curbs on the community's farm spending than britain initially was willing to tolerate
the community agreement boosted by 80 percent over the next five years regional aid to the four poorest members _ spain, portugal, greece and ireland. the increase will bring regional aid to $16.25 billion by 1992, compared with a 50 percent rise favored by the wealthier states inluding britain, france and west germany
west german spokesman friedhelm ost said his country's chancellor, helmut kohl, did his best to change mrs. thatcher's mind in private talks friday evening
the chancellor made it clear ... we now have arrived at the outer limits of what we can do,'' ost told reporters
on the key issue of overall limits on farm spending, which consumes two-thirds of the eec's annual budget, the last-minute compromise document called for a $34.4 billion maximum this year, slightly higher than in 1987
that was consistent with british demands, compared with a $36.9 billion limit favored by west germany and france
the compromise document also called for a 160-million metric ton annual limit on cereal production _ the level wanted by west germany and france, compared with 155 million tons sought by britain
every ton above the 155 million costs the eec about $175 million annually in export subsidies
as a sweetener to britain and the netherlands, the proposals called for a 9 percent price cut spread over three years from 1989
on the other most expensive crops, oil seeds, the final proposal called for price cuts and production quotas midway between british and other demands. sandwich</head> said'' and deletes 3rd from last graf ``sawyer was''</note>
an airport restaurant employee who gave mayor eugene sawyer a $4.95 beef sandwich without charging him was fired friday for ``misappropriation of company funds.''
police officers at the airport get free coffee, sandwiches and doughnuts,'' michael bueschel, 23, said after getting his pink slip. ``i figured if chicago police officers could get a free sandwich, why couldn`t the mayor.''
bueschel said he was fired by management of midway airport restaurant inc. when he reported to work friday afternoon
he said the reason for his dismissal was listed as ``misappropriation of company funds.''
sawyer, upon hearing about bueschel's firing, was not pleased, said the mayor's press secretary, monroe anderson
he thought that they had carried policy to its extreme limit and that if the young man didn't find a job, he'd find him a job or give him a job himself because he didn't think the punishment fit the crime,'' anderson said
bueschel said restaurant managers guy accetura and michael oswald told him he was dismissed from the $5-an-hour job at the cafe volare as a result of not charging sawyer for a sandwich thursday
oswald told the associated press he would have no comment. he said accetura wasn't at work late friday. there was no home telephone listing for accetura in chicago directory assistance
wls-tv reported that restaurant managers thought they had to fire bueschel because other company employees had been dismissed for giving food away and they feared that making an exception would lead to a discrimination lawsuit
it's company policy not to give anything for free to friends and such, but as far as the mayor is concerned, i thought this was the way to take care of the guy,'' bueschel said
sawyer was at the airport on his way to a speaking engagement in alabama when he got his free meal from bueschel, a six-month employee of the cafe
a security officer for the mayor had ordered the sandwich, which he then received with a note from bueschel on the take-out box: ``mr. mayor, keep up the good work. compliments of cafe volare.''
bueschel said the mayor then returned the favor with a handshake and said, ``thanks for the sandwich.''
bueschel is a sophomore at richard j. daley college, a school named for the longtime mayor who died in office
sawyer was appointed mayor by the city council last year after the death of mayor harold washington
president oscar arias, main author of a central american peace plan, urged moscow thursday to halt arms shipments to insurgents in the region. he said mikhail s. gorbachev's new image would be tested now
arias won the 1987 nobel peace prize for drafting the peace accord signed last august by himself and the presidents of el salvador, nicaragua, guatemala and honduras
he said in a message broadcast nationwide on radio and television: ``we must struggle, with the help of the whole world, so that the shipment of arms to insurgents in the region stops.''
then he directed the call specifically at the soviet union. he said the image being fostered by soviet leader gorbachev _ less dogmatic and relatively tolerant _ would be put to the test in central america
he (gorbachev) should cease all armed support, direct or indirect by means of cuba and nicaragua, to insurgent forces.''
leftist guerrillas in el salvador have been waging an 8-year-old guerrilla war against the u.s.-backed government there. the guerrillas reportedly receive some of their weapons from east bloc supporters who channel the arms through cuba and nicaragua
the guerrillas deny the reports of outside military aid. they say their arms are purchased on the international black market or captured from government forces
today there is a chance for peace like never before in central america,'' said arias, ``an opportunity for democracy in latin america like never before. there is a last chance to defeat poverty and to prevent misery, protected by dictatorships, from perpetuating itself.''
he expressed the hope that nicaragua will move resolutely toward making its society more democratic, and that peace talks between combatants in both nicaragua and el salvador will resume and bear fruit
it is they who must choose between war and peace,'' he said
cease-fire negotiations between u.s.-backed contra rebels and representatives of nicaragua's leftist sandinista government are to resume next week in guatemala
peace talks between the two sides in el salvador have stalled. the government says they will not be resumed until after legislative and municipal elections march 20
the arias accord demands cease-fires in nicaragua, el salvador and guatemala; greater freedom and democracy throughout central america; an end to outside aid to insurgent forces in the region, and a halt to the use of any country's territory as a base for attacks on another nation. abdomen, pickup 3rd pvs bgng ``the blood'' and deleting grafs 10-11 original bgng ``the amputation'' as now outdated.</note>
a team of doctors friday reattached a man's left hand to his arm 2{ months after it was joined to blood vessels in his abdomen for temporary preservation following an accident
twelve doctors and support staff spent 22{ hours in surgery on mike thomas, a 31-year-old ironworker from cleveland, ala. he was listed in serious condition
the accident in which thomas lost his hand was a pulling and tearing injury rather than a clean cut, making it difficult for doctors to determine the extent of possible nerve damage. they also were concerned about the potential for infection in the wound
therefore, they decided to attach the hand to his abdomen to preserve it for a future reattachment to his arm
the blood flow has been re-established but it might be weeks or months before we can determine how much function he'll have,'' said virginia perrin of university hospital's public relations office
thomas might be able to leave the hospital within two weeks, although further surgery might be needed, she said
`so far, so good' seems to be the attitude right now,'' mrs. perrin said
thomas lost the hand, wrist and a small part of his forearm when he grabbed a cable to break a 70-foot fall from a girder while he was working at a church nov. 24
the cable wrapped around his forearm and pulled his hand off about six inches above his wrist
the day after thomas fell, plastic and reconstructive surgeons attached the arteries, veins and skin of the hand to those of his abdomen
such a temporary attachment has been used twice, once successfully, in yugoslavia
to our knowledge, this is the first time a severed limb as been kept this way'' in the united states, said hank black, spokesman for the hospital
the surgeons' goal was to give thomas a hand with enough sensation to protect it from injury and to allow him the use of it as a helping hand, one that is better in appearance than a false one, black said. graf pvs bgng: from washington...</note>
democratic presidential hopeful richard gephardt said friday that rival paul simon should withdraw negative advertisements from television and radio or ``take off the bow tie because he's just another politician as long as they're on.''
simon, battling with gephardt for second place in new hampshire's leadoff primary tuesday, on thursday began airing ads that highlight what he called ``inconsistencies'' in gephardt's record as a congressman from missouri
after alluding to their intensifying dispute during a state democratic party dinner at which both spoke, gephardt said at an impromptu news conference, ``enough is enough on these negative ads.''
gephardt said the spot ``impugns my character and my integrity by saying, can you trust this man?
i've never impugned paul simon's character. i've disagreed with a lot of his crazy ideas .... but i have never once questioned paul simon's motives or his integrity or whether he could be trusted,'' gephardt said
i asked sen. simon to take those ads off television. and if he doesn't, he ought to take off the bow tie because he's just another politician as long as they're on.''
at an earlier appearance, simon said he would be running different ads starting this weekend, but not because gephardt asked him to
after the democrats' dinner, simon said he did not believe the dispute with gephardt was harmful
as long as it doesn't get too acrimonious, i think a healthy comparison is good,'' simon said
from washington, gephardt's campaign counsel said telegrams had been sent to television stations in boston, manchester and portsmouth, me., asking them to sell gephardt time for response ads to simon
bob bauer said the stations have generally agreed to sell gephardt such time for the ad, which will begin running saturday. bauer said he had not seen the ad
simon's campaign has described the ads not as negative but as simply comparing the candidates' records. but gephardt said the spots question his motives by suggesting his record shows he's not trustworthy, and he added:
i don't agree with ronald reagan's balanced budget amendment that (simon is) for. i don't agree with ronald reagan's line-item veto that he's for. i don't agree with ronald reagan's sub-minimum wage, which he's for. i don't agree with the senate version of the gramm-rudman bill, which paul simon voted for and supported, which would have been the fulfillment of `reaganomics.' ''
i don't agree with his changing his position on an oil import fee, changing his position on whether we should talk to the (palestine liberation organization), changing his position on the balanced budget amendment.''
gephardt added, ``i've never questioned his motives. i think he's trying to do what he thinks is right. that's what i try to do.''
so if we're going to get into this business of going back through 8,000, 9,000 votes, it's fine. we can go through them all. i'll stand with every vote i made.''
simon said he would not withdraw the ads aimed at gephardt. ``we may be changing ads, but we're not going to do it in response to his request.''
he said he had ``never claimed that there is complete consistency in my record or anyone's record. but there is a difference between absolute consistency, which no one has, and a pattern of inconsistency. the positions that dick gephardt is taking today in the campaign are appreciably inconsistent with his positions in the past.''
simon sed he did vote against one balanced budget proposal because it had ``unsound limitations.'' he said he voted against an oil-import fee that lacked rebates for poor people and he flatly denied that he changed his position on the plo
as he did in his initial response thursday to simon's ads, gephardt acknowledged that he has changed some of his positions over the years
nobody's perfect. things change, you make a vote, it didn't turn out the way you thought,'' he said. ``but to say someone is not to be trusted, or someone's motives are bad because you voted a certain way on the b-1 bomber, is just ridiculous.''
gephardt and simon have acknowledged they essentially are fighting to place second in new hampshire. at least for simon, a third-place finish could pose severe trouble for his campaign
gephardt came to concord after watching a sled-dog race in laconia in the middle of a fierce storm that dumped more than a foot of snow on new hampshire on friday. he had to change into dry clothes before the law-school speech, and he appeared before the standing-room-only crowd in blue jeans and a plaid shirt
and, before his speech, gephardt said: ``i don't take this election for granted. you know when you're no. 2 and you're trying to be no. 1, it's like avis _ you've got to try harder. so i'm trying harder.''
gephardt reiterated familiar themes in his speech, stressing the need for an economic overhaul and painting himself as anti-establishment while calling his opponents ``apostles of the status quo.''
communist rebels killed three police officers and a street vendor and wounded dozens of others in a series of attacks late friday in this central philippine city, police said
police said the four people were killed when a dozen gunmen aboard a jeep opened fire at police officers directing downtown traffic in the city, about 350 miles south of manila
the assailants hurled a grenade at pursuing officers, injuring dozens of pedestrians, police said. authorities said they believed the attackers were communist rebels. none were captured
the rebel jovito plaza brigade recently announced plans to increase attacks in cebu, the country's second largest city
mayor tommy osmena described the attacks as ``shocking'' and vowed to increase security in the city
police said 25 people were taken into custody for questioning and seven were given tests to determine if they recently fired weapons. results of the tests were unavailable and police said no one had been charged
the 25 were rounded up at a movie theater which a young girl told police she saw the gunmen enter. the theater was surrounded, the film stopped and the patrons were led out one by one for questioning
soon after the shooting, the roman catholic archbishop of cebu, cardinal ricadrdo vidal, made a rare broadcast statement in which he denounced the attack as an ``act of savagery.''
i appeal to those people of evil motives, please put a stop to your savagery,'' the cardinal said. ``we are all chidlren of god.''
communist guerrillas have fought the philippine government since 1969. says</head>
the army withdrew a full-page advertisement from the february edition of student lawyer magazine because the issue featured an article on homosexual law students, the magazine's editor said friday
the decision to pull the ad came shortly before a federal appeals court on wednesday overturned as unconstitutional the army's ban on homosexuals, editor sarah hoban said
it is very ironic; the timing couldn't be better,'' she said
the cover article in february's edition of the magazine, a publication of the american bar association, is titled ``the legal closet.'' the piece by chicago free-lance writer lynn miller is an examination of gay law students and contends that anti-gay fears and prejudices are common in law schools and within many law practices
in a note to readers, ms. hoban said the writer had encountered many people who were afraid to discuss homosexuality. in the note, she said an advertisement had been withdrawn from the issue, but did not identify the advertiser as being the army
ms. hoban told the chicago tribune on friday that the advertiser was the army and the ad had been withdrawn by the army's new york-based advertising firm, young &amp; rubicam
ms. hoban said she suspected that the army might be bothered by the article, so she had her advertising director contact young &amp; rubicam and tell the firm that the article would appear in the february issue
young &amp; rubicam then withdrew the ad
they didn't threaten us,'' she said. ``they just said they wanted to pull it. it's their right, though i'm sorry they did it just a week before we went into production for this issue.''
young &amp; rubicam could not be reached for comment by telephone late friday. calls after business hours to the agency's chicago and new york offices went unanswered
lt. col. john cullen, chief of public affairs for the army recruiting command at fort sheridan, ill., said young &amp; rubicam consulted the army before deciding to pull the ad
it's not their money, after all,'' said cullen, who said the agency had been told by student lawyer that the article contained material uncomplimentary toward the military
the magazine initiated it, and we took the option,'' cullen said of the decision to pull the ad
cullen said the army intended to continue advertising in future issues of student lawyer
highly efficient and obedient, robots have replaced workers who used to shout strike slogans and have helped fiat vault from financial gloom in the 1970s to a leadership role in the world's auto industry
the task of turning a deficit-burdened company, faced with high absenteeism and low productivity, into a vanguard, highly profitable enterprise took nearly 10 years and required massive annual investments of about $830 million
at one point, the italian automaker turned to col. moammar gadhafi's libya for money, but in a sign of financial health it bought back libya's minority share a decade later and avoided a threat to defense contracts from the united states
the era of robotics took a heavy toll on the work force. employment at fiat auto was cut by nearly half, to 72,000 workers by the end of 1987, from 138,000 nine years earlier, according to figures given by italian trade unions to the associated press
by increasing automation, fiat improved productivity and reduced costs, ushering in a period of high profit that allowed the agnelli family, which controls the company, to expand its financial empire into telecommunications, insurance, banking and retailing
vittorio ghidella, who became the managing director of fiat's auto division in 1978, and cesare romiti, who took over as managing director of the fiat group a year later, are unanimously considered the architects of the group's impressive recovery
given a free hand by chairman giovanni agnelli, whose family has been the controlling fiat shareholder since his grandfather founded the turin-based company in 1899, ghidella and romiti set fiat's course through the end of this century after subduing the tough opposition of the metalworkers union
through temporary layoffs of 24,000 workers and the dismissal of 61 involved in acts of violence and sabotage inside the factories during disruptive walkouts in 1979-80, fiat regained ``control of the plants and on production,'' carlo besuzzo, head of fiat's work planning, said in an interview with the associated press
a march by 40,000 foremen and white collar workers, supporting fiat's policy, helped end 35 days of strikes in 1980 and foiled a possible occupation of the plants threatened by the most radical groups of strikers, who were openly supported by the communist party
during the most difficult years of labor tensions, worsened by a drop in demand in the wake of the world oil crisis, fiat was burdened with unsold stocks of about 500,000 cars while absenteeism ranged from 15 percent to 20 percent
ironically, it was in large part the mounting opposition of trade unions to the traditional and stressful assembly line work that drove fiat toward heavy investments in computers and robots
it was a dramatic but unavoidable choice,'' said besuzzo. ``fiat was the first (european) auto company to brave the risks of heavy investment in automation. the result was a less expensive and better product and, after some years, an impressive economic improvement.''
at present the fiat group relies on 1,550 auto robots, or about half the total robots in use in italy, and besuzzo says there is more room for even more advanced automation in the fiat plants
for sure we have a technological leadership over japanese and u.s. makers in flexible robotized lines, which can assemble parts of different models. robots in the spray painting division could soon cover 60 percent of the production, up from 40 percent, while the percentage of robotized work in assembling parts would rise to 25 from 3 percent,'' he said
many of the robotic systems have been supplied by fiat's factory automation unit comau, which has also sold systems to major european and american auto makers, including ford and general motors
the tipo, the latest midsized model which is expected to boost fiat's ambitions of becoming europe's no.1 automaker at the expense of west germany's volkswagen, is being assembled in the factory at cassino, which is europe's most automated
the model, unveiled jan. 26, has a competitive price in comparision with european models of the same class. it required the most expensive investment for a fiat model _ nearly $1.6 billion
however, investment in automation has produced highly successful returns so far
since the beginning of the decade, the fiat group has nearly doubled net income from one year to the next
the auto division achieved a turnaround in 1983 after more than 10 years in the red. it had piled up estimated debts and losses of about $416 million by 1979. the auto sector accounts for 50 percent of fiat's revenue now. industrial vehicles, tractors and earth-moving machines bring the total to about 72 percent
the group boosted its net earnings to $522 million in 1984, to $1.1 billion in 1985 and $1.8 billion in 1986
fiat, which last year took over state-controlled alfa romeo to increase its dominance in the italian market, has a 61 percent share of the domestic market of automobiles _ a higher percentage than any other major european car manufacturer _ and a 14.3 percent share in europe
it holds a minor share of the u.s. market, as the bulk of its production is made up of small-sized cars. however it has high hopes for the alfa romeo models. the luxury 164 alfa, italy's most expensive mass-produced sedan, will be marketed aggressively in the united states while another fiat subsidiary, the prestigious ferrari, has a healthy market for its sports cars overseas
in the face of growing automation and a modest increase of auto demand in europe, besuzzo said fiat's auto employment is not expected to rise or decline through the '90s
franco lotito, secretary of the metalworkers division unione italiana lavoratori (uil), one of the largest italian trade unions, agreed with besuzzo's predictions
lotito emphasized that the sharp cut in employment resulting from robots at fiat did not cause a dramatic social impact, thanks to layoffs subsidized by a state fund, early retirements and re-employment of some workers in state jobs
at the beginning we had nourished the illusion that automation could co-exist with a high rate of employment,'' he added in an interview. ``that proved wrong, yet we did not oppose technology in the factories because we were aware it was the only possibility to keep the auto industry competitive. unions which opposed automation, like in britain, only caused the collapse of the companies and massive dismissals.''
the growing health of the group, and of the agnelli dynasty, has recently been worrying some italian politicians
the socialist party, whose relations with fiat became tense following a bitter controversy over the candidate to head telit _ a joint telecommunications venture between fiat and the state holding copmpany iri _ accused the turin group and the agnellis of dominating italian industry
some politicians called for an anti-trust law on grounds that industrial and financing holdings directly or indirectly controlled by the agnelli family have a market capitalization equal to 22.8 percent of the entire italian stock market
fiat's influence on the italian news media also came under questioning. fiat owns the turin daily newspaper la stampa, has effective control of the rizzoli publishing house and milan's influential corriere della sera newspaper and has expressed some interest of moving into commercial television
giovanni agnelli recently cooled down the controversy, noting that fiat revenue accounts for less than 4 percent of the gross domestic product
the three major state-controlled holding companies together account for 10 percent and this is not causing any worry,'' agnelli said
agnelli is such a well-known public figure that he is often referred to merely as ``l'avvocato,'' the title for a laywer in italy (he holds a law degree). he is always widely quoted, whether it be on business or politics or italy's most successful soccer team, juventus, which he owns
getting food to hungry people caught in mozambique's guerrilla war has become more and more risky and expensive for international relief agencies
anti-government guerrillas, who have sabotaged rail lines and roads, now have threatened to shoot down relief planes
the international red cross stopped flying to areas outside provincial capitals last christmas after receiving a threat from the guerrillas
care international, which runs a famine relief food transport program in cooperation with mozambique's government, is now operating airlifts to remote areas the red cross once served
but we don't know how long we can keep it up,'' said david neff, an american who is care's director in mozambique
he said it costs eight times more to move food by air than by truck, but 16 districts in four provinces can be supplied only by plane. six towns cannot be reached at all, he added, because of sabotage to the rail and road routes or the heavy concentration of the mozambique national resistance guerrillas fighting the marxist-led government
on a recent care flight that carried reporters to sena, the main highway could be seen below pitted with trenches and blocked by tree branches. tracks on the railroad line were torn up
the guerrillas have rocket-propelled grenade launchers, many of captured from the army, ``but they can bring down a plane with a pistol if they hit you right,'' said mike mispelaar, care's international operations manager
the guerrillas have blown up the longest railroad bridge in africa, near sena. they often carry away railroad tracks, set explosives on the lines and have made road travel so dangerous that 85 percent of western food aid doesn't move unless it can join an army convoy
we can't count the cost of vehicles sitting idle, waiting for convoys,'' said neff
most of the difficulty in getting grain from a seaport to a hungry refugee in the drought-stricken bush is due to guerrilla attacks on the transportation system
until last year, the guerrillas kept one of the nation's primary rail, road and oil pipeline routes, the beira corridor, inoperable most of the time
but in 1987 mozambique arranged for troops from neighboring zimbabwe to guard the corridor between harare and beira and help defend the indian ocean port. the corridor is zimbabwe's cheapest route to the sea
other neighbors also help: soldiers from malawi are stationed along the nampula-nacala route in the northern part of mozambique where sabotage still occurs regularly; troops from tanzania have been assigned to guard recaptured towns, freeing mozambican troops to retake other vital targets
if you protect 10 percent of mozambique you protect 90 percent of the economy of the country,'' said trade minister manuel jorge aranda-silva in an interview. ``you need only have the transport system linked with that 10 percent. this is survival. it is not growth.''
most of the beira railroad track has been relaid with concrete ties instead of timber ones, canadian rails, and heavier ballast. it is much harder to sabotage and an explosion is less likely to derail a train
the nampula-nacala line, most useful for malawian exports in the north, still needs to be relaid, as does a line from zimbabwe down the limpopo river to maputo. it goes through arid regions where security is difficult, and where the track is so flimsy a saboteur can simply walk away with the rails
moving donated food from overseas to nearly half of the mozambican population under such conditions requires constantly shifting strategies, explained mispelaar, who is from india
immediately after you hear about a local highway blocking, you move spare food up on available charters, get everything off the roads in that area, move other shipments up by sea, reschedule certain donations so they go to a different port,'' he said
when the bandits (rebels) came to know about a shipment and attacked 60 kilometers (37 miles) north of chokwe, we couldn't move the other trucks we had kept back on standby. bags start piling up, looting starts. you can tip the balance with the smallest mistake.''
care, nevertheless, distributes more than 300 tons of food a day to market places and refugee centers throughout the country
planes unload bags of corn and rice on air strips. women wearing only wrapped skirts in the blazing sun trudge in single file for hours, carrying the bags on their heads. they often are guarded by soldiers
some food is loaded onto tractors and taken over roads where land mines are hidden. other bags are carried by canoes to isolated farming settlements
food is a priority, so there are shortages of clothes, tools and seeds
there are more people coming out of the bush to the resettlement camps,'' said mispelaar. ``they come with nothing but if you can give them a few seeds, basic tools, some bamboo poles and a little food, they start building, they start planting, they are not totally dependent on handouts.''
past glories and future dreams of this economically depressed mining town two miles up in the rocky mountains are pinned to a bill now inching its way through congress
the measure aims to bless the national mining hall of fame and museum, now housed in the old lake county junior high school here in leadville, with a federal charter
such a charter brings no bucks but would qualify the museum for inclusion on lists of national historical sites and maps and other official documents _ and museum boosters believe that will lure thousands of mining buffs
tourist dollars are badly needed in lake county where unemployment stands at 22 percent, the highest in colorado. the state's average unemployment rate was 6.4 percent in october, the last month tallied
leadville is the highest town in north america and an historic mother lode of legends and lore from the bygone silver and gold rush days
we think having the hall of fame and mining museum will provide a cornerstone for revitalizing leadville,'' said state rep. ken chlouber. ``we may be one of the richest six cubic miles on earth because of our minerals, but we have to diversify.''
fifty-four mining museums are scattered around the country, according to the industry. they range from one-room displays to the new $1.1 million new mexico museum of mining at grants, which spotlights uranium; the world museum of mining in butte, mont., which showcases copper; the american mining hall of fame in tucson, ariz., and an exhibition coal mine at beckley, w.va
but none claims a national designation, say backers who want the national mining hall of fame and museum to become an educational center for the entire industry
the museum, set up as a non-profit corporation, was chartered by colorado in 1977 and has members in 31 states. industry giants such as amax, phelps dodge corp. and asarco support the idea, and many mining executives serve on the board of trustees
bills designating the leadville site as the nation's official mining museum were introduced in congress a year ago
on feb. 4, the senate judiciary committee unanimously approved one version and sent it to the full senate with 40 co-sponsors
an identical resolution is stalled in the house with only half the 218 co-sponsors required to move it through the legislative process
museum advocates are chomping at the bit, counting on the federal charter to help them raise $1.5 million to construct initial exhibits
for more than a century leadville has been synonymous with mining. in the 1800s, thousands of adventurers dug gold and silver, found in the town's namesake veins of lead, from surrounding mountains
legendary characters such as gambler and gunfighter doc holliday, suffragette susan b. anthony, the ``unsinkable'' molly brown and english writer oscar wilde were attracted to the boom town 100 miles west of denver, then a nondescript little frontier settlement
in this century, leadville's sought-after metal was molybdenum, used to strengthen steel. amax's climax mine north of town, which provided steady paychecks through two world wars and the great depression, employed 3,200 people in 1981
but leadville's mining collapsed in 1982 because of declining steel-making and a world molybdenum glut. climax now keeps just 48 men on a skeleton maintenance force
town leaders, accustomed to leadville's boom-bust history, at first didn't believe large-scale commercial mining was finished. but as lake county's unemployment soared and for sale signs sprouted like weeds, committees were formed to plot economic strategy
leadville is 60 miles east of aspen, 40 miles south of vail, and surrounded by some of the nation's most spectacular scenery, including two of colorado's highest peaks, mount elbert and mount massive
one campaign that fizzled over time was ``operation bootstrap,'' aimed at coaxing more tourists to the town of 3,300 people, half the county's population
the national mining hall of fame and museum was nothing but an idea looking for a home when a search committee received leadville's application in 1986
we heard there was a national competition for the mining museum, and this community went after it,'' said chlouber. ``that effort marked the first time everybody in this town really came together and forgot about their little turf battles
being out of work will do that to you,'' said chlouber, a former shift boss at the climax mine but now unemployed except for his legislative job, which pays just $11,500 a year. ``when we're all unemployed we support each other.''
to lure the museum, the school board offered the old junior high and its 71,000 square feet of space for 50 cents rent a year. the county donated parking and free utilities for two years. the town offered office space, snow removal and improved traffic routing. colorado mountain college volunteered to make promotional films, supply audio-visual help for exhibits and lend its local campus for mining seminars
we need this museum,'' said carol luoma, who owns the golden burro restaurant with her husband, jack. both lost their jobs when the climax mine closed. they gambled their life savings to buy the cafe on leadville's main street
we've got to all pull together to bring new businesses and attractions here. this is a great place to live, full of wonderful people, and i hate to see many of them leaving because there aren't any jobs,'' said mrs. luoma. ``the museum can be our showpiece and help make leadville famous again.''
robert reeder, the museum's executive director, said the victorian-style junior high building would eventually be converted to house a library, geology hall, lecture auditorium and rooms detailing the history of american mining. the hall of fame plans to periodically pick a person who's made a major contribution to mining
we want to show visitors there's virtually nothing you can look at that mining doesn't have some impact on,'' said reeder. ``did you know 17 minerals go into making newsprint? that 14 minerals are needed to manufacture basic cosmetics?
college enrollment in mining engineering is down in this country from 4,000 students in 1977 to 616 this academic year,'' said reeder. ``we want this museum and hall of fame to stimulate people's awareness of how important this industry is, both its past, its present, and its future.''
tad bartimus is the ap mountain states regional writer, based in denver
kevin bacon and elizabeth mcgovern didn't mind playing two squares in the comedy hymn to marital fidelity, ``she's having a baby.'' in fact, they liked the movie's emphasis on old-style morals
old-fashioned is new-fashioned, let's face it,'' bacon said
director-writer john hughes ``is basically an old-values type of guy in all his movies,'' mcgovern said. and his story of a young couple, jake and kristy briggs, is ``a tribute to suburbia'' and to the virtue of commitment
though the actors are young _ bacon is 29, mcgovern is 26 _ both are examples of another old-fashioned virtue: hard work. they recently talked about just how hard it was to bring out ``baby.''
one scene _ the briggs' wedding _ was shot over 26 consecutive hours. it was filmed in the winnetka congregational church in illinois, which was available for only a limited time
two versions of the scene were filmed: a straight-forward account of the wedding, and jake's hallucination about what his wedding vows really mean
wilt thou listen to endless conversations about children's clothes and decorator checkbooks?'' the minister asks in the fantasy version
the marathon session demanded a lot of bacon. ``i actually fell asleep on my feet,'' he said
bacon, who previously appeared in ``diner'' and ``footloose,'' is on the screen in almost every frame of the film. in one scene, jake sits outside the church with his best man, who tries to tempt him not to get married
the struggle, bacon says, was to win the audience's sympathy, despite the fact that his character is on the brink of jilting the beautiful kristy
i really wanted him to seem like a little boy in a monkey suit, and that was difficult,'' bacon said
mcgovern's travails were more subtle. her character, kristy, appears bland. but she's not, said the actress
kristy is ``very strong, although she doesn't necessarily appear on the surface to be strong,'' said mcgovern, who first drew attention in the industry with her portrayal of timothy hutton's girlfriend in 1980 in the academy award-winning ``ordinary people.'' the next year, she had a supporting actress oscar nomination for her role in ``ragtime.''
she's a person you wouldn't ever think twice about,'' mcgovern said. but before the end of the movie, ``the door opens on her soul and you see how much there is she has to offer.''
both actors lauded hughes' direction. ``as strong and independent as i come off on the set, i need a director who will say, `ok, that's good, you got it,''' bacon said. hughes did that for him
mcgovern agreed. ``i always felt supported and i always knew that he would guide me.''
by the end of the filming, hughes trusted bacon to improvise. one touching and funny result has jake trying natural childbirth methods _ massaging his abdomen and panting _ while kristy gives birth in another room
by that point i'd been playing this character so many times and in so many different situations that i really felt that i knew him and john knew him. ... and he just kind of said, `we'll turn the camera on and you just hang out in the room and do what you would do.''
the tension bacon has felt in front of the camera in other movies didn't apply in this one, he said. ``john sort of blows all that tension right out of the water,'' by letting the camera roll during retakes instead of shouting, ``action!'' or ``cut!'' a lot
the atmosphere during filming was relaxed enough for bacon to bring along his dog, jane, whom he calls ``a labrador deceiver'' _ a mutt that's part lab
bacon and mcgovern are both accomplished on the new york stage, and are used to feeding on the energy of an audience. but in a way, mcgovern said, the director filled that function
when he was looking at me he would see kristy, he wouldn't see elizabeth,'' she said
the normally staid community of french philosophers is in an uproar over the nazi past of martin heidegger, the late west german whose philosophy had a wide following in france
specialists have long known that heidegger, whose classic ``being and time'' in 1927 influenced a whole generation of existentialist philosophers, was once a member of the nazi party
it has not been clear just how deep his fascist sympathies ran, or how his disciples contributed _ knowingly or unknowingly _ to protecting his reputation
heidegger, one of the ranking philosophers of the 20th century, has been a particularly dominant figure in france, where his writings helped shape the thought of jean-paul sartre and other thinkers
twelve years after his death, his standing is now threatened by the mushrooming controversy, which focuses on the question: were heidegger's nazi ties a matter of opportunism, self-preservation and a weak character _ or a poisonous reflection of his lifelong belief in the superiority of the german people, language and culture?
the book ``heidegger and nazism'' by victor farias, a chilean philosopher and former student of heidegger at the university of freiburg in germany, goes far beyond anything previously published about the german thinker
farias found documents indicating that heidegger was a card-carrying, dues-paying member of the nazi party until 1945, the year world war ii ended. he argues that heidegger acted not out of circumstance or opportunism, but out of a commitment to the principles of national socialism: elitism, discrimination and anti-semitism
he further maintains that heidegger resigned as rector of the university of freiburg in 1934 not because official university policy was pro-nazi, but because it was too moderate. farias says others later became the official party ideologues at the university only because heidegger was considered too radical
while reaction to farias' book has been loud and varied, french philosophers are perhaps most troubled by the idea that heidegger's nazi beliefs are the underpinnings of his thought
francois fedier, a devoted heideggerian, called ferias' book a ``shameless falsification'' and accused the author of ``tampering with documents.''
heidegger ``was not a hero, but neither was he the partisan activist and anti-semitic denouncer of jews who emerges from the imaginary portrait painted by victor farias,'' fedier wrote in the latest issue of debat, a philosophy journal
fedier did not deny heidegger's attraction to nazism, but called it merely a ``serious error in judgment. heidegger did not see how dangerous hitler was. he let himself be fooled.''
in two recently published books, the french deconstructionist jacques derrida traced the links between heideggerian thought and nazism. critics praised the strength of derrida's analysis, but said he did not go far enough
one would have liked to see derrida ... express his own moral indignation,'' wrote robert maggiori in the newspaper liberation. ``why be so polite? why does heidegger's work, like a sword, command its victim's respect?''
farias is less polite. he devotes a chapter to heidegger's first essay, written in 1910, which extols the virtues of abraham a sancta clara, a 17th century viennese monk known for his virulent anti-semitism and xenophobia
important people like abraham a sancta clara should remain alive in our hearts, working silently in the soul of the people,'' heidegger wrote then. heidegger discussed sancta clara again in 1964 and was no less laudatory
heidegger's later work denounced dehumanization in modern society. yet, as farias and others, including maurice blanchot and philippe lacoue-labarthe, point out, he never denounced the holocaust or uttered a single word of sorrow or regret over the death of millions of jews
heidegger's irreparable mistake was his silence on the extermination,'' blanchot wrote in a letter published in le nouvel observateur, a french weekly
the controversy has also spread to germany, where farias is a professor at the free university of berlin. his book appeared first in paris only after being rejected twice by west german publishers
the liberal weekly die zeit of hamburg, in a recent article on the furor, describes heidegger as a ``scared opportunist,'' and ``not the hero type,'' but says he was not an anti-semite and questions whether he ``thought as a nazi, acted as a nazi, philosophically justified the nazi business.''
the affair has had a much higher profile in paris, perhaps because heidegger has not been as influential a figure in postwar german thought as he has been in france
in 1934, heidegger was photographed wearing a nazi badge and was quoted as saying, ``the fuehrer himself and alone is the present and future german reality.''
for lacoue-labarthe, heidegger's commitment to national socialism is ``absolutely coherent with his thinking.''
in his recent book, ``the fiction of politics,'' lacoue-labarthe quotes heidegger as comparing agriculture, ``a motorized food industry,'' to the ``fabrication of cadavers in the gas chambers and extermination camps, the blockade of countries reduced to famine and the building of hydrogen bombs.''
michel deguy, a leftist philosopher also writing in debat, argued that farias' disclosures have been common knowledge for years. he called the book ``weak conceptually and analytically'' and said it gained attention only through the mass media
in days of economic tension, such as now, bad news tends to land like a bomb, while good news is seen as a mere respite not to be taken too seriously
this explains to some degree why the recent good news hasn't caused any great commotion. the dollar, so unstable just weeks ago, has settled down. manufacturers are expanding. exports are up. the trade deficit has shrunk
but will it continue? that's the question
today, therefore, was marked on calendars a long time ago as a day to watch, it being the day on which the january u.s. merchandise trade figures come out
it could be the day on which good news makes as much noise as the bad. another indication that america's trade deficit is improving could convince some cynics that the economy really has turned around
suggestions of that turn have been dropped bit by bit over the past few weeks and months, but they have been falling soft as snowflakes rather than hard as bombs
u.s. manufacturing, for example, is out of the doldrums in which it had been stranded for years. production is rising; output per manhour is up; quality seems to have improved; wage rates have been stable
u.s. exports have been improving. the falling dollar was perhaps the one most important factor in the turnaround, since it automatically made american goods less expensive abroad while putting pressure on imports
but the story is more involved than that. for several years american producers have been refining their production techniques, refitting plants, paring their payrolls and otherwise making themselves fit for competition
in addition, the attitude of confrontation between labor and management that for decades made battlegrounds of factories has, to a very great degree, evolved into one of cooperation in pursuit of shared goals
in addition, so gradually it has gone almost unnoticed, there is also a greater awareness of exporting by even small companies that, in the 1950s and 1960s, were content to restrict sales to the u.s. domestic market
all this has been occurring without a great deal of bombast by anyone. day by day, the falling dollar got most of the attention, but the falling dollar wouldn't have been of much help to exporters if they weren't ready to export
the dollar got much of the attention because it posed dangers as well as advantages. but now the dollar has stabilized at a lower rate; the dangers inherent in its fluctuations are greatly reduced, but the advantage remains
since the beginning of the year, the exchange value of the dollar has gained 6.6 percent relative to the japanese yen, 8.4 percent against the west german mark and 6.9 percent against a basket of 10 major foreign currencies
until the dollar stopped falling, fears existed that foreigners would sour on u.s. investments, call their money home and undermine u.s. stocks, bonds and real estate. that threat now has been greatly reduced
if at the same time the united states can continue to raise exports and lower imports, the good news probably will get the attention it merits, while crisis headlines become the dust of history
the overall percentage is still tiny, just 4.7. but that represents a big increase, of 33 percent, in the number of black children attending private schools over a decade and a half. black enrollment in catholic schools was even more remarkable, growing from 4.8 percent in 1971 to 8.5 percent in 1985, according to the national association of independent schools. two stories report on such schools in georgia and in arkansas
happy noises hum down the halls of the progressive christian academy and filter into the paneled office. principal betty tolbert stops her paperwork to listen attentively
a substantial, gray-haired woman, she seems frozen in her swivel chair as she strains to catch the sounds coming from the classrooms, a buzz of song, recitation and prayer
relaxing after a moment, she nods approvingly. a smile melts the concentration that had creased her forehead
yes,'' she says. ``it's a good sound, the sound of children learning.''
a bell rings and the halls are filled with children. the girls are immaculately dressed in green plaid jumpers and white blouses. the boys wear green pants, white shirts and black ties
the children have something in common besides the uniforms: all 482 have dark skins
welcome to the progressive christian academy, the only large-scale, all-black, private christian school i know of,'' said mrs. tolbert, the 53-year-old founder and driving force behind the school. ``our motto is `all things are possible within the lord.' ''
the non-profit academy is housed in a one-story brick building atop a hill near downtown macon. until 1983, the building was a public elementary school. progressive christian is leasing it with an option to buy
you're looking at a miracle here,'' mrs. tolbert said proudly as she walked down the hall, past photographs of the rev. martin luther king jr., diana ross and bill cosby. ``this place was a total wreck when we moved in 18 months ago. now we're a family. we're also a vital education center that is serving the needs of black children.''
mrs. tolbert said she came to perceive those needs in the 18 years she was a public schoolteacher and principal
it was clear to me that the public school system wasn't providing the moral guidance, the loving discipline and the positive self-image reinforcement that many children need in order to flourish,'' she said
in the summer of 1985, betty tolbert took the plunge with $50,000 in savings and loans. she opened a trial summer school at the progressive baptist church, where her husband is pastor
we had 75 children and taught remedial reading and math with an emphasis on christian principles and the development of positive self-esteem,'' she said. ``it was incredible. i began to see a change in those children on a daily basis and so did their parents. they kept telling me their kids were so excited about the school that they didn't even have to get them up in the mornings
that fall i quit my job (as principal of an integrated public magnet school) and opened this school, which goes from k4 (pre-kindergarten) through the eighth grade. we started with 175 students. by the summer of '86, we had 400 students enrolled and had to move out of the church. now, with 482 students and 38 employees, we've got cramped quarters once again.''
the progressive christian academy is one of four mostly black private schools, including a tiny class run by seventh-day adventists, in bibb county. some 5,000 of the county's 30,000 school-age children attend private schools, most of them white
most of our children came to us from the public schools, where many were doing poorly,'' she said. ``they were developing poor self-images and their parents were afraid their children were going to be lost.''
kendall reid, a sixth-grader, feels he was one such student
i was a little mouse. i was so scared i just couldn't speak up,'' he recalled of his three years in public school. ``i had a white teacher in the first grade who told my parents i was retarded. she and the kids used to make fun of me. now i'm on the honor roll, and i know i'm not retarded.''
other students said they had to work harder at progressive christian and had fewer social and athletic activities yet still preferred their private school to public classrooms
the kids here aren't as mad as they were in public school,'' said latonya raines, an eighth-grader. ``and the teachers really seem to care about you here.''
bibb county commissioner william randall, who worked to integrate the county's schools two decades ago, said he found the present situation ironic
i've got two grandchildren in mrs. tolbert's school, including a grandson who wasn't doing well in public school,'' randall said. ``my grandson is doing much better now that he's in the private school.''
mrs. tolbert said her school, in addition to providing a christian atmosphere, gives the children positive role models
they get to see black people in charge,'' she said. ``we also strive to instill in them the belief that everybody is somebody special. we stress the worth of the individual.''
she said her school also accommodates the students' special needs and schedules
for one thing, she said, ``we're open from 6 a.m. until 6 p.m., which especially helps single parents. we provide a warm, loving atmosphere, but we also stress academics and have volunteer tutors for high-risk failures. then, too, we supervise the homework of those students who stay after school.''
she said the parents pay $30 a week for one child and $50 for two or more. they must provide books, uniforms and lunches for their children
several mothers, interviewed as a group, agreed they were thrilled with the school even though tuition money is hard to spare
my little boy is happy now. there hasn't been a day he hasn't gotten up and gotten himself ready for school. morning can be an especially tense time for a single parent, and i simply can't tell you how much this means to me,'' said natalie coggins, a social security claims examiner with two children at the school
mrs. tolbert said parents of eighth-graders want her to offer high school classes so children won't have to return to public school
i'm also getting requests from parents outside the area to start a boarding school,'' she added. ``i'd like to do that, but first we need to raise enough money to pay off our bills and complete our library, which we need to do to be fully accredited.'' the school now has provisional accreditation and plans a library fund-raising drive
i feel certain these things will all come in time. meanwhile, i must be doing something right. it's all i can do, when i go out in the hall, not to get knocked down by all the hugs i get.''
strat douthat is the ap southeastern regional reporter, based in atlanta
wary of the turbulent public school system and seeking the best possible academic environment for their 5-year-old son, lawrence and kim dade enrolled the boy in private school
the dades were one of many families who last year chose private schools over the little rock school district, which was beginning a vast desegregation plan involving crosstown busing and the reassignment of students and teachers to achieve racial balance
white flight has been a problem in the district for some time. but the dades are black
the dades' son, lawrence iii, attends mcgraw learning institute, the only black private school in little rock
we wanted a positive, strong school, and basically a black school that was strong in academics,'' dade said. ``before, we had taken our son to other schools and they didn't seem to have the care and, really, the motivation that it took. because my son was brought up in a more mixed environment, more whites than blacks, we thought it was time to have the reverse, as well as have a good academic background.''
the mcgraw school has built a reputation for academic excellence since beginning as a preschool day-care facility in 1982
patricia mcgraw founded the school in a converted grocery store near downtown soon after earning a doctorate in socio-linguistics at washington university in st. louis
i thought it was a necessity,'' said ms. mcgraw, an english professor at the university of arkansas at little rock. ``for about 20 years i've taught on the college level and it has been my experience that many black students do not use the language well, even after 12 years of schooling. they do not feel good about themselves and generally ... most of them need something that has been lacking in the school systems.''
in the beginning, most of the pupils were the children of ms. mcgraw's students at college
about 60 students, mostly children of business and professional people, now attend the institute. more than half are preschoolers, the rest in kindergarten through third grade
the institute is certified by the state to teach through sixth grade and has a long waiting list
students are taught basic reading, writing, mathematics, geography, science, music and dance, and learn french as well as english. special emphasis also is placed on language development and computer training
as important to most of the students' parents, ms. mcgraw said, are the lessons their children are taught in cultural awareness and social skills and the experience they get in being where blacks are the majority
a very crucial and important part of our curricula is to be sure that these young people have good feelings about themselves and their people,'' ms. mcgraw said. ``most often, we are told very little about how we happened to be where we are. at this school .. . we teach young people parts of african and afro-american history that can make them feel good about themselves. that, i know, they don't get anywhere else
these little folk come from a people that has been greatly neglected in this society, so they need some special kind of emphasis to make them know that they are really something awfully great,'' she said. ``i think that's what we give them.''
the school is not for everyone, ms. mcgraw conceded. many families cannot afford the tuition and fees, which total about $2,650 annually for the 12-month program
the school has several pupils of mixed race, and one white child attends the after-school program. but its mostly black enrollment and its emphasis on black culture have discouraged some black parents, ms. mcgraw said
many black parents ... have been conditioned to believe that things cannot be good if they (their children) are not mixed with white,'' she said
the small enrollment enables the school's five full-time and two part-time teachers to give extra attention to individual students, the one feature cited most by parents who enroll their children at mcgraw
alma stewart described her 5-year-old son, curtis, as ``a slower learner'' who has to be motivated
he needs to be pushed. some teachers' classrooms (at public schools) are overcrowded, and they don't take the time that they need to take to push our kids,'' mrs. stewart said. ``that's my reason for sending him here.''
shelly wilkins-robinson said her daughter was further advanced academically than some other 4-year-olds but was not getting the educational base she needed at another school
at mcgraw, she's already reading and knows phonetics, numbers, alphabets. the way the teachers here have worked with her, she knows now that she can read almost anything.''
several students who got their early academic training at mcgraw have advanced rapidly in the public school system
one, 7-year-old khiela holmes, ranked in the top 1 percent in the nation in mathemathics on a national standardized test she took a year ago. on average, first-graders in the little rock district ranked at the 57th percentile among first-graders nationwide who took the metropolitan achievement test in the 1986-87 school year, accordiing to sue tadlock, a district evaluation and testing specialist
khiela completed kindergarten at 5{, had gone through the first-grade math program within two months of her first year at public school and was doing third-grade math work by the time she reached second grade. she also excelled in reading, english and science
khiela started at mcgraw at 2{ and stayed there through 5{. we feel that a lot of her ability now is attributable to what mcgraw did,'' said her father, tracy holmes. ``all those years, she had one-on-one attention, she excelled in all her studies and she enjoyed what she was doing
that's the key,'' he said. ``they made her feel confident in what she was doing. she felt good about herself.''
a study by the urban league of arkansas concluded that black students in the state have not achieved in school at a competitive rate, and it questioned whether they receive adequate early academic preparation in public schools
without appropriate preparation during early school years, the future academic achievement of black students is left to chance,'' it said
charles m. hodge, author of the study, said the mcgraw school is a good alternative, particularly for younger students, to public schools, which he said are largely insensitive to the needs of blacks
that the school is predominantly black and emphasizes black culture is not inconsistent with desegregation efforts, said hodge, dean of the university of central arkansas college of education
in fact, they're probably doing more in addressing the issues of a multiracial society,'' he said
when former congressman jack tanner arrives at a scenic new hampshire farm for a photo opportunity, the farmer chides him _ ``are you my 10:30? you're late!''
all along the crowded new hampshire campaign trail, tanner, played by michael murphy, is constantly bumping into the other candidates _ pat robertson, gary hart, bob dole. they play themselves
all make cameo appearances in the premiere episode of hbo's new series ``tanner '88: the dark horse,'' making its debut tonight, just in time for the new hampshire primary. the next episode will be aired in march
the limited-run series is a collaboration between director robert altman and cartoonist garry trudeau. they have created a fictional presidential candidate, surrounded him with a loyal staff and will follow his progress through the 1988 presidential campaign
at one point in the first episode, set in new hampshire, tanner's campaign manager, t.j. cavanaugh (pamela reed), complains to the artsy filmmaker who produced the candidate's video biography, ``deke, if you use the term `neo-realism' one more time ...''
neo-realism is, in fact, the term that springs to mind when describing the series, reminiscent of both ``medium cool,'' haskell wexler's 1969 quasi-documentary on the 1968 democratic convention, and ``the candidate,'' michael ritchie's 1972 film starring robert redford as a reluctant mr. clean drafted to run for the u.s. senate
but ``tanner'' is mostly a reflection of altman, himself an early innovator in ``neo-realism.'' his ``nashville'' and ``the wedding'' broke new ground in filmmaking with improvised dialogue and their unflinching examinations of american morality
trudeau, of course, put politics on the funny pages with ``doonesbury,'' and ``tanner'' gives him a vast new forum for political satire and commentary
between the two of them, altman and trudeau have created a searingly insightful dramatization that could shed more light on the 1988 election process than any number of network commentators and newspaper columnists
in episode one, tanner and his staff arrive in new hampshire to find a state full of jaded, media-wise voters who cringe at the thought of another candidacy, even though tanner is good-looking, likable, competent and well-intentioned
the premise of his candidacy is that since joe biden dropped out of the race, tanner has stepped in as the ``generational'' candidate, the only one among the lot, he says, who can say without thinking which beatle was his favorite
tanner gave up his michigan congressional seat in the 1970s, because his daughter had cancer. he's now divorced. his daughter, alex, played by cynthia nixon, has long since recovered and is helping with the campaign
tanner did poorly in iowa and arrived in new hampshire with barely enough momentum to rent a seedy motel room and buy a few pizzas for volunteers. the only news media interest in him consists of a lone boston reporter doing a series of psychological profiles of the candidates
when tanner's campaign film is shown to a test group of voters, they hoot at its undraped sentimentality. there's hope, though. they react favorably to the candidate himself. it's when the film seeks to manipulate them that they get turned off
it could be the process itself,'' says the media consultant. ``it's tedious. it's long. what they may be resisting is another candidacy.''
while the media consultant tries to figure out how to sell the candidate, t.j. is contending with phone calls from joe kennedy who apparently is trying to get her to help his own campaign. ``don't hang that on me,'' she says at one point in the one-sided conversation. ``that was a victory party. i was drunk and that was just a figure of speech.''
after a depressing day of campaigning, tanner returns exhausted to the motel _ where a mystery woman is waiting for him _ and stops by the campaign office
there the campaign filmmaker surreptitiously captures, in red-hot cinema verite, tanner's unrehearsed but eloquent tirade on patriotism
the campaign's new slogan: ``tanner _ for real.'' on to super tuesday
elsewhere in television:
hankering to host snl _ tom hanks will be host of ``saturday night live'' this coming week. randy travis will be the musical guest. hanks, who got his start on television in ``bosom buddies,'' then went on to movie fame in ``splash'' and ``nothing in common,'' was host of the show in 1985. he has a new movie coming out, ``punchline,'' in which he plays a standup comic. ..
experimental women _ cinemax has announced two upcoming offerings in its comedy experiment series. teri garr will star in ``flapjack floozie,'' playing a vaudevillian who eats enormous quantities of pancakes as part of her act and develops an addiction. the other, ``guide to glamorous living,'' re-teams merrill markoe, former head writer on ``late night with david letterman,'' with comedian harry shearer, formerly of ``saturday night live.'' they did ``this week indoors'' last year on cinemax. the special features appearances by elayne boosler, polly draper, letterman, andrea martin, martin mull, garry shandling and fred willard
sportswriter dan jenkins popularized the phrase ``dead- solid perfect'' to describe a well-struck golf shot, and he wanted just that quality in the movie of his novel about a cinderella barmaid named juanita
i like this one,'' jenkins says of ``baja oklahoma,'' which home box office will premiere this saturday. when jenkins' pro football novel ``semi-tough'' was made into a burt reynolds movie in 1977, most of the book had disappeared
the adaptation of `baja oklahoma' is 500 times more faithful than what happened to `semi-tough.' it was great having a producer and director busting their chops to make it more faithful,'' jenkins says
baja oklahoma,'' which is another way of saying texas, tells how juanita hutchins, who works in herb's bar &amp; grill, finds true love with a guy named slick and happiness as a country singer. her ticket to fame is her tune, ``baja oklahoma.'' goodbye pearl beer and chicken-fried steaks, hello nashville
lesley ann warren stars as juanita, peter coyote as slick, swoosie kurtz as juanita's friend doris, billy vera as singer-songwriter lonnie and anthony zerbe as disc jockey ol' jeemy williams. bobby roth directed from a screenplay by roth and jenkins
in addition, willie nelson, emmylou harris and bob wills appear as themselves. alice krige plays patsy cline. the movie was filmed mostly on location in texas, with more than 2,000 extras used in the scenes filmed at billy bob's texas, a huge honky tonk in fort worth
juanita's song of ``baja oklahoma'' was in the book, as was her hero, willie nelson
willie's an old friend,'' said jenkins. ``i've known him for 20 years. i called him up and asked him if he'd write the music for it. we went up to lake tahoe, where he was working, and he wrote the music for two verses in 10 minutes. willie says, `it ain't ``stardust,'' but it ain't bad.'''
jenkins has lived in new york city for more than 25 years, but looks and sounds like he just came in from his hometown of fort worth, texas. he still has a texas drawl, he's tall and still has most of his youthful slimness, but his hair is white and thinning on top. with his cigarette, he could be a slightly over-the-hill marlboro man. his wife, june, operates mexican restaurants in fort worth, new york and florida named juanita's after the heroine of ``baja oklahoma.''
jenkins spent 23 years as a senior writer at sports illustrated, then left in 1984 to write a weekly syndicated column and columns for sports digest and playboy magazines. he's also written four novels, ``semi-tough,'' ``dead solid perfect,'' ``baja oklahoma,'' ``life its ownself'' and ``limo,'' co-authored with bud shrake. a fifth, tentatively titled ``don't write me nothing that rhymes,'' a period comedy about the newspaper business, is near completion
i write comedy romances,'' he said, adding with a grin: ``i write novels to support my journalism habit. journalism's my first love. it keeps you alert. i love novels, but writing news is my real love.''
one of his three children, sally jenkins, is a sportswriter for the washington post
baja oklahoma'' has been through several typewriters on its way to becoming a movie. frank pierson wrote the first two screenplays. joan tewkesbury wrote another version
then i got a call from producer marykay powell asking me to write the screenplay,'' jenkins said. ``it was going to be a theatrical picture with george roy hill directing and shirley maclaine playing juanita. it would have been a different movie, more of a big comedy. now it's more of a love story, but we keep some of the comedy
given all the compromises you have to make adapting a novel to the screen, it was a good experience. it made me like hollywood again.''
jenkins believes he can finish his latest book in about another month. ``it's set in the 1930s and '40s, so i've had to do a lot of research,'' he said. ``i wanted everything to be accurate. if somebody's talking about something in the news, i want it to be right. it's got a lot of old radio stuff, too, and that's all accurate. i'm a radio freak.''
elsewhere in television:
games people play _ interactive games network inc. will develop new technology that will allow viewers at home to compete against one another in live game shows and sports programs. the development is being funded by such companies as nbc, united cable television corp., le groupe videotron ltd., united artists communications inc., general electronics ltd. and the paul kagan ventures fund. . .
cable kickoff _ cable companies will kick off national cable month in april with a 56-hour program marathon starting friday, april 1. it will be cablecast on one basic channel in its entirety to virtually all u.s. cable systems via c-span ii's transponder. in addition, the home shopping network, with 19 broadcast outlets, will carry six early hours of the marathon. the purpose of the marathon is to show off cable's original programming
a small-business survey released today indicates inflation could become a worsening problem during 1988
the national federation of independent business, which studies responses from more than 2,000 member firms each quarter, said ``a trend toward more frequent and larger price increases has become quite evident.''
while signs of economic deterioration weren't sharply defined in the latest study, the inflation component jumped sharply, said professor william c. dunkelberg, who interprets the findings
dunkelberg, dean of temple university's school of business, said 27 percent of all companies in the survey said they plan to raise prices, a 6 percentage point jump from the previous survey and the highest level in several years
the sharp rise in price expectations among respondents is considered significant for the economy as a whole, since the small-business community produces about 50 percent of the nation's gross private product
in spite of the negative implications of the inflation component _ and despite expressions of doubt about the economy's future _ the survey showed businesses plan to spend on equipment, inventory and additional jobs
such spending plans, said dunkelberg, appear inconsistent with a rise in negative opinions about future business conditions
each year since 1985, he said, the percentage of companies expecting a worsening of conditions rises, while the number anticipating better markets shrinks. simultaneously, those declaring it to be a good time to expand fell to just 13 percent of all companies, a four-year january low
apparently, many believe the law of gravity applies to economic statistics as well as to apples,'' he said, explaining that the longer the recovery continues, the greater is the percentage believing it will end
negative and positive variations in the january report left the small-business optimism index almost unchanged at 101.8 seasonally adjusted, compared with 102.3 in the previous quarter
the index, which sets 1978 as its base, is made up of responses to 10 questions, including expected business conditions, current job openings, plans for capital outlays, expected credit conditions, and changes in net earnings
the latest reading of the optimism index, which was begun in late 1974, compares with an all-time high of 108.7 in january 1984, and an all-time low of 81.1 in the second quarter of 1980. except for brief dips in the final quarters of 1985 and 1986, the index has exceeded 100 in every survey since early 1983
some highlights of the components include:
_employment _ strongest hiring plans since 1978. nineteen percent of companies plan to increase employment in the next three months, while 5 percent plan net reductions
job openings reached a new high for the expansion, with 23 percent reporting unfilled positions. in new england, the percentage was 42 percent
new hiring plans were strongest in manufacturing, with 28 percent planning increases and only 8 percent planning workforce reductions
_interest rates _ average interest rates paid by small companies held at 11.1 percent in the fourth quarter of the year. fifty percent of all short-term loans were tied to the prime rate
_prices _ there are indications, dunkelberg said, that inflation could be worse than generally anticipated. ``based on plans to raise prices, non-food inflation should begin to pick up, heading toward the 5 percent level.''
commenting on the decline in business expectations, dunkelberg said ``if this view produces a caution in spending on the part of more and more decisionmakers, the economy cannot help but slip.''
the big exception to this, he added, is if foreigners ``become exceptionally aggressive buyers of u.s. goods.''
one evening last fall, america's most distinguished living playwright stood on a bare stage at the los angeles theater center and read to an audience whose reverence overflowed in explosions of laughter, sighs and standing ovations
this sold-out promotion for his autobiography, ``timebends: a life'' (grove press, $24.95), demonstrated arthur miller's enduring popularity with american theatergoers who remember ``death of a salesman'' and ``the crucible'' _ an audience he fears is becomming extinct
maybe it's a minority art at this point,'' he says of his great love, the theater. ``that doesn't mean it's less valuable. the masses aren't always right.''
earlier in the day, miller had reflected on the travails of the american theater and his own unhealed wounds from years of critical attack. he voiced with some reticence his perception that the media collaborated in the destruction of his second wife, marilyn monroe. and, although he is at work on another play, he expressed hesitation at re-entering the often brutal arena of the new york theater
the prospect of battling the theater again is not something i look forward to,'' he said
when i began, the theater was the most exciting of media. it was full of adventure, social protest and the new discoveries of (theater teacher and director constantin) stanislavsky. some of the best actors were involved in theater rather than the movies.''
what changed that, he surmises, was an escalating standard of living which pushed ticket prices out of the reach of the average person, and a new breed of critics who didn't understand
the crucible,'' was shrugged off by reviewers when it opened in 1953, he said. ``that makes me wonder what else is being shrugged off.''
a sturdy, energetic 72, miller has found a new fascination in book writing. his next project may be a novel. his 599-page autobiography offers a rich pastiche of memories from his depression era childhood, from his painful marriage to the most famous movie star in the world and his equally painful confrontation with the house un-american activities committee
some reviewers have questioned the rambling form of ``timebends'' which follows no particular chronological order. but miller, with characteristic confidence, sees it as a breakthrough
i believe the form of this book is new and it fascinates me. ... the book is written the way we rememeber, not the way movies used to show it by flipping calender pages backwards, and not as a hurdler going over hurdles one after the other,'' he says
we remember in connected images. the mind has no sense of time as far as the emotional life is concerned. time is liquid in this book, like a wave that rolls over on itself. i'm bending time.''
dredging up memories of his four-year marriage to miss monroe appears to have been difficult
any of the personal relationships are difficult and painful (to write about),'' he says. ``but anything that doesn't make the author feel pain is probably not worth writing in the first place. if you're revealing the world, you're revealing yourself.''
there is a revelation of a consuming love which drew him into the unseemly marriage to the actress
she was a whirling light to me then,'' he writes, ``all paradox and enticing mystery, street tough one moment, then lifted by a lyrical and poetic sensitivity that few retain past early adolescence
i was in a swift current, there was no stopping or handhold, she was finally all that was true.''
there is some self-criticism by miller for failing to save the actress from her own demons. but more often, he blames her demise on others: the hollywood hierarchy of directors, acting coaches and gossip columnists who fed the monroe myth but denigrated her efforts to become a serious actress
his hardest jibes are at the press which dogged her during their marriage and, in his opinion, conspired to portray her in the most unflattering light possible
i don't blame the press,'' he says. ``the press can collaborate in harming somebody, but they don't do it singlehandedly. she was frustrated by the press. she wanted to be taken more seriously and every time she tried to pick herself up off the floor they would then kick her in the face. an actor is at the mercy of the press.''
he is asked whether miss monroe, a sex symbol in a pre-feminist era, might have fared better today
yes, i think so,'' he says. ``she was a victim of the hypocrisy of the '50s. it was hard not to be. but the hypocrisy continues. the tears keep being shed by people who did their best to destroy her.''
of his own life, so eloquently recounted in ``timebends,'' miller says he has few regrets
i'm very fatalistic about it. it's not that there's a mystical fate, but one's character determines one's fate. i simply created this life of mine the same as your handwriting is yours and can't be different. ... we do make our lives and we're free to choose in one way or another.''
editor's note _ this is one of a series of occasional reports by associated press correspondents on life and customs in the byways of the world.</head>
this town of cobblestone streets and sparkling white houses is a long way from anywhere in india, but millions cross a desert every year to get to it and wash away their sins in its holy lake
pushkar is a place revered by hindus and even by some foreigners who seek out its tranquility
its beginnings lie with lord brahma, the creator of the universe in hindu mythology. hindu texts have it that when brahma was seeking a place for a holy ceremony, he chose pushkar
he dropped a lotus from his hand and water spouted from the desert to form a lake, according to the texts that date from the 8th century b.c
in these modern times, as the sun rises, hindu pilgrims chant mantras and take a dip in pushkar lake, believing all their sins will be washed away by the holy waters
europeans and americans often are seen by the lake, sharing the religious experience. they feed grain to pigeons and sweets to long-tailed monkeys who scramble across the pinnacles of the town's 400 temples where ascetics, hindu monks and other holy men gather
pushkar, a town of 9,000 people, is an oasis of tranquility, far removed from the bustling cities and teeming slums of bombay, new delhi and calcutta
the blazing sun soaks into everything
it was the sacred month of kartik, signifying the onset of winter, when lord brahma is said to have dropped his lotus blossom
brahma, foremost in the hindu trinity of supreme gods, had been looking for a suitable site to perform a major religious ceremony
but his wife, savitri, could not attend the ritual. angered, she decreed that henceforth brahma would be worshiped at only one place
pushkar became the sole earthly home of the peaceful god of creation, while millions of shrines were erected across india to lord shiva the destroyer and to ferocious goddesses like kali and durga who are often depicted as fire-spitting images carrying heads of evil men they had slain in battle
but this oasis in the desert emerged as a major holy town for the hindus, almost equal in importance to benaras, the ``eternal city.'' hindus believe that one goes to heaven if one dies in benaras
pilgrims come by the thousands to pushkar, 250 miles southwest of new delhi, to bathe in the lake and revive the memory of brahma's majestic rite every year on kartik poornima, the full moon night in the month of november
shielded by nag pahar, or serpent mountain, pushkar has india's _ and perhaps the world's _ only temple to brahma
the town centers on the lake, where there are several steps for bathing. signs warn foreigners ``not to wear shorts and other revealing clothes, not to smoke, drink near the lake or take photographs, not to kiss, embrace or indulge in other irreverent acts.''
the steps, called ghats, are controlled by vigilant and aggressive brahmin priests, who preside over religious ceremonies, armed with horoscopes. they watch every pilgrim approaching the lake and pounce on potential clients
each visit is recorded in their bulky, cloth-covered books. a priest can easily tell a devotee when his grandfather visited pushkar by referring to the dog-eared notebooks
displeasing a priest can be unpleasant. he will pronounce curses on one's entire family, naming all _ the grandfather, father and sons
from the lake, the steps lead up to the main street, a favorite shopping center with the tourists. the shops are stacked with exotic handicrafts, peasant skirts and other clothes native to this part of india. velvet shirts and pajamas, musts for low-budget travelers, hang in vibrant displays
annie sims, the preacher's wife, delivered the prophecy at a noon prayer meeting late in december:
the lord said he was going to send a tornado, and many shall die,'' she recalls, saying god spoke through her during the prayer service. ``he was going to send his fury and vengeance on the people.''
so 17 faithful members of the repairer of the breach church of god in christ gathered at their small westside church _ a converted two-story frame house _ on jan. 3 to await the wrath of god
the congregation has been waiting, faithfully, peacefully, ever since
any day now, any moment, members believe, god will send a tornado spinning down from the heavens to smite the wicked and spare the righteous. and spare their church
their number includes a school teacher, a recent college graduate, a college freshman, and a restaurant worker with a management degree
they have sacrificed jobs and education, as well as the respect of family and friends who question their sanity
the congregation has been challenged by the power of the state, too
five members have been removed under court order _ though two of them have returned since undergoing forced psychiatric examinations. two children were taken from their mother and returned to school, and a 51-year-old man was ordered to undergo kidney dialysis treatment
but unlike a mormon polygamist clan in utah whose recent resistance of police ended in a shootout that killed one officer, these religious fundamentalists have quietly accepted the intrusions
we're not against the court,'' says m.l. sims, the church elder and preacher, the husband of annie. ``if god allows it to happen, then that's it.''
sims, 36, says he's also lost the support of national church headquarters in memphis, tenn., which ordered him to take down a sign proclaiming affiliation. ``until the lord says to move it, it's going to be up,'' he says
a woman who answered a call at the memphis headquarters said no one was available to discuss the matter
despite the challenges from outsiders, sims and the church members welcome visitors and talk freely. all profess an unshakeable belief in the tornado. none say they want to leave
the 39-year-old mrs. sims first prophesied the tornado would strike jan. 3, then jan. 24. both dates passed uneventfully. the simses now say god delayed the tornado to gain time to spread the warning. no new date has been set
it'll be pretty soon,'' says sims. ``it's nationally known now.''
no one's faith is shaken by the delay, or by meteorological precedent
tornadoes can occur anytime, but most of the tornadoes in this area occur from march through june, and then again late in the fall,'' said national weather service forecaster larry mowery, who says he can't recall a midwinter tornado ever striking the area
religion professor patrick olivelle, chairman of the department at indiana university, says apocalyptic visions are common religious themes
of course there are always reasons why the end never comes,'' he said. ``i always tell my students that religion is not logic, and you cannot put logical questions to that.''
one of those waiting in the church, david freeman, a 24-year-old graduate of grinnell college with a major in spanish, said, ``there's no doubt in my mind, or in anyone's mind that it's going to come.''
freeman stopped showing up for his bank teller's job after jan. 3, then called the bank to explain. ``they didn't really understand it,'' he said. ``but after the tornado comes they'll understand, and they'll congratulate us for standing up for the lord.''
the family of ruschell harris, a gary school teacher, and her 16-year-old daughter, jeanetta, won the court order compelling the two to undergo psychiatric evaluation
really, at the time, they felt i was so deeply under the influence of pastor that we couldn't do our own thinking,'' she said. ``if i believe something, and it's different from what you believe, does that make me insane and you not?''
mrs. harris said she and her daughter returned voluntarily to the church after a psychiatrist found them competent
i'm 47 years old. i've been teaching for 20 years. i've taken my daughter out of school,'' said mrs. harris indignantly. ``do you think i would be here if i didn't believe it?''
jeanetta says it doesn't matter she's missing out on school. ``it doesn't bother me because after the tornado, the school may not be there.''
a court gave custody of patricia sanders' two sons, allen simmons, 13, and charles russell, 12, to a brother, who will return them to school. child welfare authorities took the children from the church
i don't fight that. they're just doing their job,'' says mrs. sanders. ``they don't understand, because this is spiritual.''
the days are occupied with informal services, talking and just waiting
praise god, because this world is coming to an end, and we want to be right,'' chanted elder sims during one service. ``people say we're strange, they say we're crazy, that we're crackpots,'' he intones, mopping sweat from his face with a towel thrown around his beefy shoulders. ``but we're just doing what god says to do.''
better be so ready, you may not know the day,'' sings the congregation, now a choir whose voice reverberates off bright blue-painted plaster walls
there is no television or radio in the church, and no newspapers. adult members take turns preparing meals in the fully equipped kitchen, and the teen-agers clean up. the simses live upstairs. at night, the others fold up the metal chairs and spread out bedding
the cramped quarters are part of the sacrifice. ``we've all sacrificed here,'' says 18-year-old falease lemon, who dropped out of indiana univerity's gary campus. ``god is going to pay us in return.''
jacqueline sims, the preacher's 18-year-old daughter, says the waiting will be ended soon
we'll be out there after the tornado,'' she says. ``then the world will be a better place to live, with everybody doing god's will.''
the briefing packet prepared by the air force said things would be less civilized at the galapagos, where the group visited the darwin center, which does nature research, including work on the islands' endangered giant turtles
wear what you are ashamed to give to goodwill,'' the briefing packet advised, and bring two pair of tennis shoes and sandals. maitlin said there was good reason for the extra footwear: the group had to wade ashore
it's no vacation resort,'' he said
besides roe, the party included reps. manuel lujan, r-n.m.; george brown, d-calif.; marilyn lloyd, d-tenn.; bob walker, r-pa.; james sensenbrenner, r-wis.; and ron packard, r-calif
still more gastrointestinal problems were reported from the six-day trip led by house small business committee chairman john lafalce, d-n.y., to discuss trade and debt issues in brazil, argentina and chile
bilateral trade has an impact on the small business community here,'' said gary luczak, a lafalce spokesman who declined to identify who answered sick call. ``mr. lafalce has a bill to open bilateral trade to small business.'' he also said lafalce is an active member of the banking committee
luczak declined to make available the group's daily itinerary, but he said it included an overnight flight from brazil to chile and long days of meetings and briefings
mr. lafalce has trouble getting people to go along (on his trips) sometimes because he works them so hard,'' luczak said
this, apparently, wasn't one of those times. accompanying him on the trip, which ran up $61,858 in military aircraft costs, were 12 house members, six spouses, five aides and six military escorts
according to luczak, the other members were charles hayes, d-la.; david dreier, r-calif.; marge roukema, r-n.j.; dennis hertel, d-mich.; gerald kleczka, d-wis.; jamie fuster, d-puerto rico; thomas manton, d-n.y.; tom mcmillen, d-md.; gerry sikorski, d-minn.; kweisi mfume, d-md.; jim bates, d-calif.; bruce vento, d-minn.; and patrick swindall, r-ga
travel to down under countries was not a house exclusive. four senators racked up $209,085 in military aircraft expenses winging to australia and new zealand after a stop in the philippines, with trade and security issues on the agenda in each country
the traveling party included sens. james exon, d-neb.; john melcher, d-mont.; larry pressler, r-s.d.; and howell heflin, d-ala.; their wives; four aides; and two senate officials, abbott saffold, secretary for the majority, and john doney, assistant secretary for the minority
among european travelers was a large delegation headed by rep. tom lantos, d-calif., that went to west germany to meet with members of european parliaments and then to the soviet union and czechoslovakia
the delegation had some spiritual resources: the house chaplain, the rev. dr. james david ford, whose wife accompanied him. why the chaplain? ``i would assume it's because the group discussed human rights in russia and czechoslovakia,'' lantos spokesman bob king said. `` having the chaplain along was a useful thing.''
other members on the trip were sam gibbons, d-fla.; j.j. pickle, d-texas; donald pease, d-ohio; thomas coleman, r-mo.; william clinger, r-pa.; john miller, r-wash.; and thomas sawyer, d-ohio
along for the first parts of the trip were gilman and vander jagt, who left the lantos group and caught up with the narcotics committee's trip to southeast asia
travelers to africa included sens. ernest hollings, d-s.c., and terry sanford, d-n.c., their wives and walter stewart, secretary of the senate. their stops to inspect military installations and talk to u.s. officials included italy, kenya, tanzania, zambia, zimbabwe and spain
while most members of congress traveled with colleagues, spouses or aides, rep. austin murphy, d-pa., did a virtual solo: a four-day trip to honduras to watch a local army reserve unit build roads
accompanied only by an army liaison officer, he made the journey in an army aircraft only 10 days after the house formally reprimanded him for a series of ethics violations
why honduras? ``he had never been there,'' replied his spokesman, john casey
the second wave of oscar hype and hoopla begins this week when nominations for the 60th academy awards are announced with as many publicists attending as press
broadcast news,'' ``the last emperor,'' ``moonstruck'' and ``hope and glory'' seem certain to place high in the wednesday nominations, judging from critics' awards and hollywood consensus
the early-morning announcement will be held at the beverly hills headquarters of the academy of motion picture arts and sciences. while reporters phone in stories to their news organizations, publicists will telephone their clients and bosses with the good or bad news and return to their offices to plot the second phase of the oscar campaign
campaigning'' is a dirty word in the industry, but most people in the movie business do it
we don't like it, but we can't stop it,'' sighs academy president robert wise
the academy expressed its feelings in a message to members in the reminder list of eligible releases: ``you will be importuned by advertisement, promotional gifts and other lobbying tactics, in an attempt to influence your vote. each year these crude and excessive solicitations embarrass the academy, embarrass you and demean the significance of the academy award.''
yet this year's campaign appears as intense as ever with estimates of the total cost run as high as $5 million
i don't know how much attention is paid (to the campaigns) by the voters,'' wise said. ``not much, i suspect. i know they have no influence on my vote; i rely solely on my own judgment
i think the campaigns are justified only to call attention to a good film that has been released early in the year. that's the only way i'm influenced. i read about `the tin men,' which was released earlier in l987, and i said to myself, `yeah, that was a good picture.'''
you can't influence academy members,'' said booker mcclay, who has directed campaigns for universal pictures for the past dozen years. ``these are professionals who have spent years in the business and seen thousands of films. you can't hustle them
the main goal is to get the voters to see your picture. you do everything possible so they can see it at their convenience.''
mcclay's big push this year is for universal's prestige film, ``cry freedom,'' which has performed disappointingly at the box office in its limited release. since november, the film has had 21 special screenings at the studio theater, including those for the actors, writers and directors guilds. academy members can also show membership cards for admission at theaters showing ``cry freedom.''
tri-star pictures took extreme measures to insure exposure for ``gaby,'' a film about a handicapped woman. it has been praised by the critics but has failed to attract an audience
we really, really love the film,'' said peter silberman, west coast publicity vice president for tri-star. ``we felt we needed to do something special to make it more available for academy members. so we sent out 2,500 cassettes of `gaby.''' this is believed to be a first-time event for a film that is still in theatrical release
the most visible form of campaigning is advertising in the hollywood reporter and daily variety. every winter the trade papers bulge with ads proclaiming films and filmmakers ``for your consideration.'' one publicist estimates the cost per page at $5,000, including creative, color printing and space charges
let's face it, the trades are our bibles,'' comments marketing consultant lloyd leipzig. ``the question is: how many ads to run? if you run too few, you don't get consideration. too many and you're accused of overkill. the voter says, `they're trying to buy me.'''
mcclay said universal ran only 14 ads for ``out of africa'' pre-nominations, and the film ended up with the best picture award of 1985. on the other hand, orion pictures bought 65 ad pages for ``amadeus,'' the best picture winner for 1984
publicity plays in important role in academy campaigns. cher, for example, has recently been on four magazine covers and has appeared on most of the important tv talks shows. all of this brings attention to ``moonstruck,'' for which she seems certain to be nominated as best actress
cher has been very cooperative,'' said john flinn, a publicity veteran who is conducting the ``moonstruck'' campaign for mgm. ``we also brought olympia dukakis to hollywood for a round of interviews. (director) norman jewison has done good work for us. even nicolas cage, who usually doesn't do publicity, has agreed to some college interviews.''
but what does a publicist do when stars won't agree to interviews? lloyd leipzig faces that problem in his campaign for ``ironweed.'' meryl streep and jack nicholson would do no publicity
it's a tough, harsh, uncompromising, relentless movie,'' said leipzig of ``ironweed,'' which concerns hobo life in 1930s buffalo. ``not the kind of movie america is into this year.''
it's a movie that requires a lot of screenings and not only in los angeles and new york, he said. ``i've also arranged screenings for the 100-odd academy members in london, 20 in paris and 15 in rome.''
studios also promote their films with expensive brochures which are mailed to academy voters. members of the music branch are inundated with cassettes and albums of songs and scores
after the nominations the campaign continues, but usually with a more dignified tone
you've made it this far _ you don't want to blow it with too much hype,'' cautioned one publicist. ``it never works.'' 0165</first> ^with laserphoto, lasergraphic</note>

base price: $12,200
as tested: $16,351

type: front-engine, front-drive, six-passenger intermediate sedan
engine: 3.8-liter, electronic fuel-injected, v-6
mileage: 18 mpg (city), 27 mpg (highway)
top speed: not available
length: 188.4 inches
wheelbase: 106 inches
curb wt.: 2,887 lbs
assembled by: ford, atlanta or chicago
options on test car: preferred equipment package (includes air conditioner, rear window defroster, cruise control, tilt steering, paint pinstripe, special light group, remote fuel door lock and trunk release, power door locks, rocker panel molding, six-way power driver seat, power side windows) $1,891; 3.8-liter v-6 engine $1,068; black sidewall p205-65r15 tires $56; stereo radio with cassette $137; custom wheel covers $140; heated windshield $250; clear coat paint $183

delivery charge: $426
with drug abuse blamed for 20 percent of aids cases in western europe, several countries are exploring ways to get clean needles to addicts to slow the spread of the disease
the goal is to help addicts stop sharing needles and cut their risk of passing aids to each other and to the general population. the world health organization is encouraging national campaigns to reduce needle-sharing as part of its global strategy to combat aids
the netherlands, britain and switzerland have introduced extensive needle- exchange programs
elsewhere, health authorities are using other approaches to make syringes and needles more widely available to keep addicts from sharing equipment
in copenhagen, denmark, for example, addicts _ or anyone else _ can now pick up free syringes and needles at drugstores. after closing hours, they can buy a syringe and two needles for the equivalent of 80 cents from sidewalk dispensing machines
although male homosexuals have been most at risk from aids, drug abusers now account for 20 percent of cases reported to the world health organization in geneva from western europe and 25 percent from the united states
dr. manuel carballo, chief of social and behavioral research for the organization's global program on aids, said in an interview that there is also evidence that drug-taking by injection is increasing
if aids is introduced into the general population of western countries on a large scale, carballo said, it will probably be because of drug abuse _ through sexual contact with infected addicts, including prostitutes, and from pregnant women to their babies
in january, aids experts from 23 countries met at the world health organization's headquarters to review ways of dealing with the rise in aids among intravenous drug abusers
among proposals they considered were giving addicts bleach to clean needles, providing washing facilities in drug clinics, information campaigns and needle-exchange programs
carballo said the main objection to exchange programs was that they could be seen to condone the use of drugs
under such programs, addicts receive free syringes and needles in exchange for their used ones. at the same time, health authorities offer advice on aids and drug treatment
even though the world health organization has not publicly endorsed needle exchange, carballo said he favors the idea when combined with efforts to reduce drug-taking
if we accept that needle-sharing is one of the primary routes of hiv infection, then it stands to reason that the long-term effect of these programs may well be the cutting down the potential spread of hiv,'' the health official said
hiv stands for human immunodeficiency virus, which causes aids
intravenous drug users sometimes share needles not only because of short supplies, but also as a social gesture in the way marijuana users pass ``joints.''
carballo said evidence from the netherlands and britain indicates that exchange programs can reduce needle-sharing, although there is no evidence yet of a reduction in aids infection
the dutch program began in 1984 and is by far the most extensive in the world. it is centered in amsterdam, the capital, which is a haven for drug abusers, with an estimated 7,000 addicts
municipal spokesman gijs van stijgeren said the city distributes 600,000 needles a year. no questions are asked and no names taken
the spokesman said a small proportion of the nation's 400 aids patients are drug abusers, adding that the amsterdam program ``doubtlessly has been of great influence'' in slowing the rate of infection. another contributing factor, however, could be that many heroin addicts in the city prefer smoking the drug to injecting it
the british program began last april as a one-year experiment, with the establishment of 15 needle-exchange clinics in england and scotland. results have been uneven
the program has recruited about 2,000 addicts nationwide, and some larger clinics, such as the three in london, are seeing as many as 50 people a day, officials say
but a program set up in dundee, scotland, collapsed after six weeks in what was described as an atmosphere of acrimony between health workers and their clients. one addict, in a fit of anger, reportedly sprayed blood from a syringe on a worker
in glasgow, scotland, local residents picketed the clinic for six months, maintaining that it would attract junkies and pushers into their neighborhood. the protests have since died out, and officials say the program is going smoothly
much attention has been focused on edinburgh, the scottish capital, which has a notorious problem with hard drugs
unlike england, where drug abuse accounts for 1 percent of all reported aids cases, 60 percent of aids carriers in scotland are intravenous drug users, and the majority of them live in edinburgh
carol tinto, administrator of the lothian health board's aids prevention team, which is in charge of edinburgh's program, said it has been a qualified success
tinto said the clinic has had 115 clients, including 50 or so regulars, but it has not been able to recruit large numbers because it was set up to be open one afternoon a week and distribute only three needles at a time to each addict
the monitoring research group at the university of london's goldsmiths' college has produced a confidential report on the british program, and the government will not disclose its findings until the report is studied
dr. gerry stimson, a sociologist who led the research, would not discuss the group's overall assessment but said some of the larger clinics have been very successful in attracting new clients
major cities in switzerland launched anonymous needle-exchange programs one year ago. in zurich, a european hard-drug center with an estimated 4,000 addicts, syringes and needles are available free and without prescription from doctors and drugstores. public reaction to the program has been mild
retail sales rose 0.5 percent in january, and some economists said the gain was evidence that consumer confidence has nearly recovered from the october stock market crash
retail establishments sold $128.1 billion worth of goods in january, the third consecutive increase and the highest monthly total since august, when sales hit $128.9 billion, the commerce department said thursday
the commerce department also raised its earlier estimates for retail sales in december and november
fewer americans are rushing to file their federal tax returns this year, but those who do are finding the average refund up by almost 20 percent from 1987, the internal revenue service says
during the first five weeks of the year, the irs received 17.5 percent fewer returns than for the same period a year ago. the average refund was $656, compared with $548 at the same time last year
although some errors are turning up, the irs said, there have been no big surprises, the irs said thursday
the federal communications commission said publisher rupert murdoch could seek a permanent waiver of a rule that prohibits cross-ownership of media
murdoch's temporary waivers, granted in 1986, give him until march 6 to sell the new york post or wnyw-tv in new york, and until june 30 to divest himself of the boston herald or wfxt-tv in boston
attorney howard m. squadron, representing murdoch, expressed skepticism that the fcc would grant a permanent waiver
a federal judge has rejected federated department stores inc.'s motion to dismiss campeau corp.'s challenge to its takeover defenses, and the federal government has indicated it might intervene in the case
the securities and exchange commission, which submitted a brief thursday supporting campeau's right to file suit aainst the delaware anti-takeover law, also indicated it might express an opinion on the merits of the suit itself
separately, the ohio house approved a bill to help federated thwart the canadian company's bid. it abandoned another because of questions about its constitutionality
a group led by coniston partners says it has accumulated a 6 percent stake in gillette co. and is seeking to meet with potential buyers of the company
coniston, a partnership that was instrumental in the breakup of allegis corp., also indicated thursday it might seek representation on gillette's board of directors if the company did not take sufficient steps to boost its stock price
the board of directors of stop &amp; shop cos. unanimously rejected a $1.03 billion buyout offer from dart group corp., saying the $37-a-share bid was inadequate and not in the best interests of the company or its stockholders
after a daylong meeting thursday, the board also urged shareholders not to tender their shares to dart
the company said in a statement it was exploring alternatives to the unsolicited offer, including a possible sale of the company
leaders of the 12-nation european economic community meeting at an emergency summit were deadlocked over aiding poorer members and curbing huge agricultural subsidies
matters are completely deadlocked, especially in the area of agriculture,'' dutch premier ruud lubbers was quoted by a senior aide thursday as saying at the close of the first day of a two-day meeting on the trade bloc's financial crisis
the community, which is operating without a budget, failed twice in the last eight months to agree on how to curb spending and raise new revenue
a bloc of belgian and french investors has claimed control of a majority of shares of societe generale de belgique sa and agreed to keep the nation's biggest holding company belgian
the move thursday could thwart a takeover effort by italian investor carlo de benedetti
belgian industrialist andre leysen and the french holding company cie financiere de suez said they had 43 percent of the company's stock
mexico has extended for one week the deadline for banks to submit bids for the country's debt-for-securities auction, although the treasury department says a majority of its creditor banks have given approval to the innovative proposal
j.p. morgan &amp; co., the exchange agent of the deal, said in a statement from new york friday that the deadline was extended to feb. 26 from feb. 19 ``in response to requests from numerous banks to prepare their bids.''
the influx of women into the working world is turning the work place into marriage hunting grounds and putting pressures on managers to deal with office romances, nepotism and sexual harassment, a private study says
the work place is not supposed to accommodate people falling in love,'' said sarah crim, principal researcher for the study, ``corporate affairs: nepotism, office romance and sexual harassment.''
the work place is supposed to be a rational place, and romance is emotional,'' ms. crim said
a selective midwinter review of the farm labor situation by the agriculture department showed there were about 11 percent more hired workers on the job than a year ago
a quarterly report showed about 340,000 workers hired by farmers were on the job during a survey in the week jan. 10-16, compared with 307,000 a year earlier, the department said thursday
the figures did not include some workers provided by contractors in california and florida. those numbers were down 30 percent and 58 percent, respectively, from january 1987
the stock market was little changed thursday as the dow jones average of 30 industrials slipped back 0.50 to 1,961.54
bond prices finished lower. the yield on the 30-year treasury bond, which moves inversely to price, rose to 8.35 percent from 8.30 percent
pork futures prices fell steeply, while cattle futures retreated
the dollar turned mixed as dealers awaited the december merchandise trade report
oil prices continue to drift aimlessly on the new york mercantile exchange
in moderate trading thursday, contracts for march delivery of west texas intermediate, the benchmark u.s. crude, closed at $17.11 per 42-gallon barrel, down 2 cents from wednesday
refined products moved higher, however
wholesale heating oil contracts rose 0.07 cent to 47.35 cents per gallon, while wholesale unleaded gasoline sold for 46.65 cents per gallon, up 0.17 cent
it was a real dull day,'' said bob baker, an analysts at prudential-bache securities inc
he said product prices rose because they had fallen considerably more than crude on wednesday, ``and things were just drifting back to a more normal relationship.''
drexel burnham lambert inc. analyst linda simard said crude opened strong at the start, picking up on moderate overnight gains in london, but the surge faded quickly when the momentum faltered
trading continued in a narrow range for the rest of the day, she said
runza fast-food restaurants have something mcdonald's, burger king and wendy's don't _ cabbage and a cult following
the chain offers hamburgers, french fries and other traditional fast foods, but it's the runza sandwich that's the staple at runza drive-inns of america
the runza _ a mixture of ground beef, cabbage and onion in an oblong loaf of dough _ is available only in nebraska and three neighboring states. but its following is devoted
ex-nebraskans living in new york are known to order several dozen runzas _ with cheese and italian variations _ when they hold their ``taste of nebraska'' parties in the big apple
new customers often react with disbelief when they learn that cabbage is a main ingredient in the runza, says chain chief don everett
ninety percent of the people who don't like cabbage normally like the product,'' everett said. ``i say to people, `if you don't like it, i'll give you your money back or i'll buy you a hamburger.'''
everett apparently shells out few refunds, because his lincoln-based chain sold about $15 million worth of runzas last year at its 42 restaurants in nebraska, iowa, kansas and colorado
its franchises have reported overall sales increases every year since runza drive-inns of america was incorporated in 1966, everett said. but the runza's roots stretch back to 18th-century russia
germans who were invited to settle in the volga region by czarina catherine the great in 1763 developed the runza or bierock, said ruth amen of the american historical society of germans from russia
a century later, many of the germans migrated from russia to the americas because of a change in russian leadership
our people, when they came from russia, brought the runza with them,'' she said. ``i can't say, and i don't think anyone can say, whether they picked them up from the russian people.''
everett picked up the runza from his mother, sarah ``sally'' everett, who learned how to bake runzas from her mother on a farm near sutton
mrs. everett's brother, alex brening, and her brother-in-law, milan everett, found themselves looking for work shortly after world war ii. with an investment of about $500, the three opened the first runza restaurant in 1950
mrs. everett and brening still own the original runza, but they sold the trade name rights to don everett in 1966
a subsidiary, runza national, has franchised 42 of the restaurants, everett said. thirty-six of the restaurants are in nebraska. three are in kansas, two in iowa and one in colorado
everett, a major stockholder in about half the restaurants, has enough franchise applications on file to expand the chain rapidly. but he said runza drive-inns will only grow as quickly as qualified owners and managers are found
we have more than 1,400 applications, but we don't give them serious consideration because they don't have qualified managers to send here for training,'' he said
if a franchise application receives initial approval, the applicant or a designated store manager must come to runza's lincoln headquarters for 50 hours of training
the franchise is not awarded until the training period, which includes working in runza restaurants, is successfully completed, everett said
kathi krause started working at everett's first runza drive-inn in 1972 at age 16 as a $1 per hour carhop. today, she's a major stockholder in nine runza restaurants
in states other than nebraska, mrs. krause admits, runzas can be a hard sell
it's kind of been a word-of-mouth recipe that people in nebraska have really grown accustomed to,'' she said. ``outside nebraska, we've had to work a little harder to let people know what they are.''
as eastern airlines' pilots union fought in court to stop the transfer of the carrier's northeast shuttle, the leader of the nation's unionized pilots said the takeover of eastern routes by a small, low-cost cargo company could lead to industrywide action
henry duffy, national chairman of the air line pilots association, said eastern's plan to let tiny orion air operate eastern planes out of atlanta could draw ``full labor reaction.''
pilots all over the united states will see this as a threat to the professions,'' duffy told the miami herald in a story published today. ``if one company could get away with this, other companies with like minds could duplicate it.''
u.s. rep. cardiss collins, d-ill., will hold hearings tuesday in washington over orion's proposed provision of pilots and crews to operate 26 planes out of atlanta, starting april 1. the pilots would receive one-third the pay now earned by eastern's crews, according to details made public of the contract with orion
eastern unions see the orion deal as both a way for the money-losing carrier to lower costs and to keep operating during a strike
meanwhile, u.s. district judge barrington d. parker in washington on thursday signed an order to expedite the pilots' legal effort to stop the shuttle transfer and management's counter-effort to move the transfer along
he set an april 12 hearing. the order also included requirement of a 10-day notice to the pilots and court before any transfer of the shuttle, meaning the shuttle transfer couldn't come before april 22
texas air criticized a pilots' press release that said eastern was ``barred from the shuttle transfer until court ruling.''
alpa (the air line pilots association) has issued a misleading, preposterous release ... they are up to their old tricks,'' texas air spokesman bruce hicks said from houston
hicks said the court order was a joint agreement among eastern, its parent company and the pilots and that it would allow management to keep its original schedule of mid-april for making the eastern shuttle a separate entity. he said the agreement mainly set up a schedule for depositions and filings in the discovery, or evidence-gathering, phase of the case
eastern had asked the court to dismiss the pilots' challenge so it could go ahead with the shuttle transfer
texas air outraged eastern's labor leaders last week by announcing the profitable boston-new york-washington shuttle would become a texas air division called air-shuttle
the pilots union last year filed suit seeking to block any transfer of eastern's assets
texas air last year made eastern's reservations system a separate entity and transferred or sold some aircraft, gates and routes to continental airlines (also owned by texas air) and other carriers
unilateral dismemberment by texas air corp. management of eastern airlines will not be tolerated,'' said capt. jack bavis, chairman of the eastern pilots union. ``the shuttle is not gone, and we will fight to keep it within eastern using every available resource
we're confident that judge parker will agree with eastern pilots that a unilateral eastern air shuttle transfer is unlawful and nothing more than a union-busting tool,'' bavis said in a prepared statement
alpa contends the sale of the shuttle service violates the federal railway labor act by changing the working conditions of eastern pilots without collective bargaining and undermining alpa's collective bargaining status
new york attorney james linsey, representing the pilots, said he would seek eastern and texas air internal memos, and also will ask during depositions of eastern and texas air officers, about plans for any more asset transfers, such as ``latin american routes; significant transfers of aircraft to other airlines.''
then we proceed to court for an injunction to prohibit the systematic dissection and dismantling of eastern airlines,'' linsey said
texas air said it would pay eastern, reeling from a decade of losses, $125 million cash and $100 million more in securities for the shuttle. eastern union officials say the shuttle has brought in more than $125 million cash in the last three years
a majority of mexico's creditor banks have given the government permission to go ahead with a new proposal to swap some of its enormous foreign debt for special bonds, the treasury department said
at the same time, it announced that the first auction of the bonds had been tentatively set for feb. 26, a week later than initially planned
in new york, j.p. morgan &amp; co., the exchange agent of the deal, said in a statement thursday that the deadline was extended by a week ``in response to requests from numerous banks to prepare their bids.''
under the program, the government plans to exchange some of the debt it owes foreign commercial bankers for new, 20-year bonds that will be issued by the government
the mexican bonds will be backed by $10 billion worth of special securities to be issued early this year by the u.s. government. mexico is expected to pay about $2 billion for the 20-year, u.s. zero coupon bonds, which pay no interest but are issued at a sharp discount of their face value
in a statement released late wednesday, the mexican treasury department said it asked its approximately 600 creditor banks permission to offer the bonds because provisions in the loan contracts bar it from giving preferences in the repayment of the debts
it received majority approval on feb. 5, it said
even so, it said, ``the fact that the banks have expressed agreement so that the bonds can be issued does not imply a commitment on their part to take part in the auction.''
jose angel gurria, the nation's chief debt negotiator, said 300 banks had given their authorization for mexico to go ahead with the auction
the program would apply to $51 billion of the country's total foreign debt of about $105 billion, the second highest in the developing world after brazil
some major u.s. banks reportedly plan to shun the auction because they are unhappy that mexico will continue obtaining loans at 100 percent of their value while paying back, through the bond program, its old loans at about half their value
they also are reluctant to accept losses of 50 percent or so on the loans entered into years ago
gurria, in an interview with the government newspaper el nacional, shrugged off the banks' concerns
it doesn't worry us ...,'' he said. ``the banks should make their decision and quote it. no one pressures them, nor suggests a price to them.''
we are not negotiating,'' he said, ``they are taking their position and they will declare it in a sealed envelope.''
when government officials open the bids, he said, ``those that please us most we take, and those that don't, no. the auction mechanism eliminates negotiations.''
he said the government ``has no preconceived idea about prices or levels. ... we have a totally open mind because we are entering new ground. nothing will happen if the offers in the auction are not accepted.''
government officials have said previously that if they don't consider the bids good enough, they may well not accept any
under the program, banks would exchange their old debt for the new bonds, letting mexico recover 52 cents or so for each dollar in the secondary market. that means that mexico could retire part of its debt for half its face value
by reducing its debt, the government will also cut the amount of interest it pays each year on the loans. mexico was scheduled to pay an estimated $8 billion to $9 billion in interest charges in 1987
a federal judge has turned down federated department stores inc.'s request to dismiss campeau corp.'s challenge of a delaware anti-takeover law, while the federal government has indicated it might intervene in the case
in another development thursday, toronto-based campeau disclosed more financing details for a proposed $5.4 billion merger with cincinnati-based federated. the merger was offered as an alternative to its outstanding $4.2 billion hostile tender offer
we believe that the federated board cannot, consistent with its fiduciary responsibilities to stockholders, continue to refuse to meet with us,'' campeau chairman robert campeau said in a letter to federated chairman howard goldfede
federated had no comment on campeau's renewed offer, federated spokesman jim sluzewski said
the securities and exchange commission submitted a brief thursday supporting campeau's right to challenge the delaware statute. the sec also indicated it might express an opinion on the merits of the suit itself
u.s. district judge leonard b. sand in new york had asked the sec for comment on federated's motion to dismiss campeau's suit. federated, which is incorporated in delaware, contended campeau had no standing to make the constitutional challenge because it did not have assured financing for its hostile takeover bid
but the sec indicated ``the substantial efforts and expenditures'' undertaken by a party making a tender offer satisfied the requirement that a party have a ``personal stake'' in an issue in order to have standing to sue
the brief also stated campeau could suffer ``substantial injury'' if forced to wait for assurance of financing before pressing its lawsuit, and such assurance would do little or nothing to clarify the constitutional issues in the case
campeau challeged the takeover law as an unconstitutional interference with interstate commerce and an infringement on federal regulatory authority
the law is regarded as significant because of the thousands of major companies that have incorporated in delaware. black &amp; decker corp., which has a $2.03 billion hostile offer outstanding for american standard inc., also has challenged the law
eric summergrad, the sec assistant general counsel, said in washington the agency's staff also was considering a similar ``friend of the court'' brief addressing the actual issues raised by the suit. he said a decision on whether to file such a brief should be made in the next two weeks
campeau also has filed suit to challenge federated's ``poison pill'' takeover defense, but that issue was not addressed by the sec brief issued thursday
federated shares jumped $2.37{ to $59.87{ a share thursday on the new york stock exchange
campeau further disclosed that it had financing commitments for $200 million of a planned $500 million bank loan being arranged by bank of montreal and banque paribas and a commitment for a $100 million short-term ``bridge'' loan from first boston corp. first boston also indicated it was highly confident it could raise up to $1 billion in subordinated debt to finance the merger
campeau said in his letter to goldfeder that security pacific national bank in los angeles has committed $500 million to the deal and ``has advised us that it is highly confident that commitments can be obtained for the balance of the required financing.''
campeau on wednesday disclosed it had agreements for $660 million in financing for its $5.4 billion offer. federated has said it would discuss that offer, which was applicable only in a definitive merger agreement, if campeau showed it had enough financing to complete the buyout
ohio shopping center developer edward j. debartolo, who helped finance campeau's $3.4 billion buyout of allied stores corp. in 1986, agreed to lend $400 million. the reichmann family of toronto, which controls olympia &amp; york developments ltd., a major campeau shareholder, agreed to buy $260 million in new campeau shares
federated operates approximately 650 stores nationwide and had sales exceeding $11 billion in 1987
federated's holdings include the new york chains bloomingdale's and abraham and straus, filene's of boston, burdines of miami, rich's in atlanta, bullock's and bullocks wilshire in los angeles and i. magnin in san francisco
dart group corp. says it will press its billion-dollar buyout bid for stop &amp; shop cos. despite a unanimous rejection of the offer by the stop &amp; shop board of directors
our offer is still outstanding,'' dart president robert haft said thursday following the rejection of the offer. ``our offer is to the 90 percent of the shareholders who are not on the board.''
in rejecting the offer, the stop &amp; shop board said the $1.03 billion buyout, a bid of $37 a share, was inadequate and not in the best interests of the company or its stockholders
among the board's considerations was information that dart has yet to secure commitments to provide financing for its offer, stop &amp; shop said in a statement. stop &amp; shop also said it was exploring alternatives to the unsolicited offer, including a possible sale of the firm
a company statement said stop &amp; shop had received ``indications of interest from third parties for a transaction with the company.''
but haft said dart was prepared to compete for stop &amp; shop
if there is a higher bona fide alternative to our offer, we intend to bid against it,'' haft said in a telephone interview
stop &amp; shop said its other alternatives included exploring a leveraged buyout, recapitalization or other restructuring. in a leveraged buyout, investors borrow heavily to purchase a company and then pay off the debt with the company's cash flow or the sale of its assets. stop &amp; shop, which operates 141 supermarkets and 171 bradlees department stores around the country, has said publicly it prefers to remain independent
the statement referred to dart's history of making millions of dollars in profits through failed takeover bids. many analysts doubt that dart is sincere in wanting to acquire and operate a retail company
haft denied his company had made its offer solely to profit from its stop &amp; shop holdings. the dart group has acquired 738,220 shares of stop &amp; shop, 2.7 percent of the outstanding shares
haft said dart had begun the process under which it could call a special meeting of stop &amp; shop shareholders for the purpose of replacing the company's board with directors more sympathetic to the offer
stop &amp; shop stock fell 50 cents thursday to $36.87{ a share in new york stock exchange trading. announcemennt of the rejection came after the close of trading
haft and his father herbert, the chairman of dart, had offered $31 a share for the retailer, and earlier this week raised the bid to $37
in hartford, conn., officials at local 919 of the united food &amp; commercial workers' union said thursday they have retained a team of lawyers, investment bankers and other advisers to explore the workers' options in the face of the dart bid
the union also requested a meeting with stop &amp; shop directors
we are exploring all and every appropriate alternative to protect the interests and jobs of the employees we represent,'' said local president arnold f. espinosa
among the options being considered are seeking a ``white knight,'' a suitor sympathetic to the employees' interests, and an employee stock ownership plan in a possible leveraged buyout, espinosa said
the hartford local, which represents 10,000 stop &amp; shop workers, is leading the effort on behalf of other locals. stop &amp; shop has a total of 35,000 workers. pickup</note>
a franco-belgian deal to keep a restructured societe generale de belgique sa in belgian hands fell through friday and revitalized a bid by italian investor carlo de benedetti to take effective control of the nation's biggest holding company
belgian industrialist andre leysen failed to get the necessary backing from a group of mostly belgian shareholders to approve a deal with the french holding cie financiere de suez to take control of societe generale
leysen said in a statement ``he considered his mandate as spokesman for the group as over.'' he added he would not take new initiatives in the fight for control of the company that has a stake in a third of the belgian economy
de benedetti is trying to get effective control of societe generale and use it as a platform for a pan-european financial holding company
the italian investor claims to be the largest single shareholder and can control, through allies, 38 percent of stock in the company. he has a public offer for 15 percent more
the 166-year-old societe generale has interests in about 1,400 companies world-wide with assets totaling nearly $3 billion
the group of mostly belgian investors formed around leysen said it had 28 percent of stocks in the company while suez claimed 15 percent
but together with various small allies leysen said the bloc would have been assured of absolute majority at shareholders meetings
the accord was also favored by the current management of societe generale, which has come under sharp attack by de benedetti
even before friday's rejection of the leysen-suez deal, de benedetti had offered to cooperate with belgian shareholders in restructuring societe generale, with a belgian as chief officer and himself running the day-to-day management
de benedetti did not extend the offer for cooperation to suez however
a shareholder can block management decisions when he has 25 percent of societe generale stock
friday's developments followed a week of frantic negotiations between the three interested parties and threatened to defeat de benedetti's bid to take control of the company
suez meanwhile said in paris it would continue to negotiate with belgian shareholders despite leysen's withdrawal
suez said in a statement the group ``is continuing discussions with all the belgian shareholders that have expressed their desire to build a balanced partnership with us.'' acquirers</head>
gillette co., which has fought off cosmetic giant revlon co. repeatedly, is now being chased by a group led by coniston partners
coniston subsidiary rb partners has accumulated 6.76 million gillette shares, or about 5.8 percent of the company's roughly 115.9 million shares outstanding, the group disclosed thursday
coniston, a partnership that was instrumental in the breakup of allegis corp., indicated it would like to meet with gillette, said paul e. tierney jr., coniston general partner
failing that, tierney said coniston may meet with potential buyers of gillette stock in an attempt to seek representation for the upcoming board of directors annual meeting in april
we don't want to break up gillette,'' tierney said. ``the smartest thing would be to see the company purchased by another entity.''
coleman mockler, gillette's chairman and chief executive, said in a prepared statement, ``rb partners appears to be trying to pressure the gillette directors into putting the company up for sale and to stir up renewed speculation in gillette stock.''
the directors have consistently stated the view that gillette has a bright future as an independent company,'' the statement said
the coniston group said it acquired the shares because it believed they were undervalued. coniston also indicated it would attempt to meet with gillette management to determine the steps the company would take to boost its stock price
but according to the gillette release, the company was satisfied that a recent restructuring was sufficiently boosting shareholder values and it would not be pressured into giving up its independence
shearson lehman analyst andres shore said if coniston pursued a proxy fight against gillette management, it might find support in the many institutions that hold company stock
thursday's disclosure came after several days of renewed takeover speculation surrounding gillette that sent the consumer products company's stock shooting higher
gillette rose $3.62{ to $41 a share in active new york stock exchange trading thursday
the group stated it might meet with potential acquirers to determine their interest in buying gillette, and to compare the price they might offer against the benefits of a management plan
boston-based gillette long has been the object of takeover speculation. over the past two years the company has spurned several takeover offers from revlon group inc., the latest a $5.41 billion proposal
the companies signed a standstill agreement in november 1986, after revlon acquired a 14 percent take in gillette and made its initial unsuccessful offer for a $4.12 billion buyout. the pact prohibits revlon from launching a tender offer without the consent of gillette's board of directors _ which adamantly has opposed takeover overtures
after rebuffing revlon in 1986, gillette undertook a restructuring that included layoffs of about 2,400 workers and the sale of a number of its smaller businesses
last november, the company announced a reorganization that split it into two main units, one for its north american and european razor, razor blade, personal products and stationary products businesses and the other for international and diversified units
coniston's moves indicated it believed gillette was worth more than the stock market had valued it, and the group might realize a bigger profit from the proceeds of a buyout, breakup or other restructuring than it would from a long-term rise in the company's stock price
keith gollust, a general partner in the group, declined to identify the parties deemed potential buyers for gillette, although rumored acquirers in the past have included the british conglomerate hanson trust plc and unilever nv, the anglo-dutch consumer products company
now that wall street has been in a bear market for nearly six months, some venturesome investors are searching out ``cheap'' stocks to buy
of course, just about all the merchandise a stockbroker has to offer has been marked down significantly since last summer. but some stocks may, upon appraisal, look cheaper than others
how to identify them? one handy way is to plug several statistical measures into a computer program and instruct the machine to search the market for stocks that meet those criteria
norman weinger and michael metz, analysts at the investment firm of oppenheimer &amp; co. who are well known on wall street for screens of this type, have just completed one
they found ``deep discount stocks'' predominating in electric utilities, banking, insurance, savings and loans, and some household-name blue chips as well
no investment decision is warranted on the basis of these figures alone,'' they caution. if a stock is out of favor, there are likely to be excellent reasons why
the data should be used as a starting point in a quest for unusually attractive values,'' weinger and metz say
the analysts set three standards for a stock to qualify as deeply discounted:
_ its price-earnings ratio had to be at least one-third below the average for the market as a whole, as measured by standard &amp; poor's index of 400 industrials;
_ it must carry a dividend yield at least one-third more than the s&amp;p 400;
_ the ratio of its stock price to book value, or theoretical worth if the company were to be liquidated, had to be at least one-third below the aggregate ratio for the s&amp;p 400
the two biggest names that showed up on weinger and metz's screen were general motors and sears roebuck _ prime examples of ``companies that clearly would be affected by any slowdown in consumer spending,'' the analysts noted
also conspicuous by its presence is merrill lynch, reflecting the depressed state of the securities industry
numerous banking concerns also made the least-loved list, thanks (if that is the right word) to worries about loans in third world countries and in real estate and energy deals that investors are worried about
representatives from the insurance industry include such prominent participants as aetna, cigna, continental and travelers. from the savings and loan group: h.f. ahmanson, calfed and great western financial
and then there are no less than 57 utilities, from atlantic energy to pacificorp
this is, weinger and metz say, ``an industry undergoing significant change. perhaps the most important change is that capital requirements (e.g., for new plants and other facilities) are tending to flatten or decline
as a result, some utilities are becoming net cash generators rather than the insatiable consumers of capital they were in the 1970s
it is estimated that the industry in aggregate will be able to cover its capital requirements entirely from internal cash generation by 1989. this development has favorable implications for the industry's investment status
improving debt-to-equity ratios could provide the basis for an upward valuation of the group, enabling utility companies to pay out a larger proportion of reported earnings in dividends
the group may command considerably greater investment interest as a result of the recent market decline and greater concern about prospects for continued economic growth.'' trade figures; no pickup</note>
the dollar surged in europe today on news of a sharp improvement in u.s. trade performance in december
gold bullion prices also advanced
after picking up gains in early trading, the dollar shot up immediately after the commerce department reported that the u.s. trade deficit narrowed from $13.2 billion in november to $12.2 billion in december. it was the smallest gap since january 1987
the dollar rose above 130 japanese yen for the first time since mid-december, trading at 131.15 yen _ up from 129.95 yen earlier in tokyo and from 129.03 yen on wednesday. tokyo markets were closed thursday for a national holiday
here are some other afternoon dollar rates in europe compared with late thursday, with rates before the u.s. trade announcement in parentheses: 1.7135 (1.6949) west german marks, up from 1.6885; 1.4060 (1.3915) swiss francs, up from 1.3870; 5.7915 (5.7305) french francs, up from 5.7135; 1.9230 (1.9038) dutch guilders, up from 1.8961; 1,263.00 (1,250.50) italian lire, up from 1,246.65; and 1.2632 (1.2630) canadian dollars, down from 1.2663
the british pound sank to $1.7365, down from $1.7565 earlier in the day and 1.7595 dollars late thursday
gold bullion rose to a bid price of $445.25 a troy ounce in london, up from the morning fixing of $440.30 and late thursday's $441.50
in zurich, switzerland, the metal jumped to a bid of $442, up from $440 earlier today and $441 late thursday
earlier, the metal had closed in hong kong at a bid of $443.69, down from $443.93
silver bullion was quoted in london at a bid of $6.36 a troy ounce, up from $6.29 this morning and $6.31 late thursday. also moved on general newswires</note>
the u.s. trade deficit narrowed to $12.2 billion in december, the smallest gap since january, as exports hit a record, the commerce department said today
for the year, the trade deficit widened to $171.2 billion, the largest ever. but financial markets were expected to pay more attention to the december numbers, which came two months after the oct. 19 stock market crash
december's merchandise trade deficit of $12.2 billion was an improvement from the $13.2 billion gap posted in november
december's deficit, the smallest since january's $11.9 billion shortfall, was paced by a record $24.8 billion in exports, a 4.2 percent improvement over november. november's gain had also resulted from surging exports
imports, meanwhile, were at $37 billion in december, the same level as in the previous month
still, for the year, the differnce between what the united states imported and what it exported soared 9.6 percent from the previous record deficit of $156.2 billion in 1986
for all of 1987, imports totaled $424.1 billion and exports totaled $252.9 billion _ up from imports of $383 billion and exports of $226.8 billion in 1986
the reagan administration was quick to hail the new numbers. trade representative clayton k. yeutter said the drop in the deficit ``is good news, particularly since this is the second straight monthly decline. ...we hope this is a sign that there are better days ahead on the trade front.''
jay goldinger, economist for cantor, fitzgerald, a los angeles bond brokerage, said the trade figures demonstrate ``we are in the middle of a major change in course'' on the balance-of-trade
but it's a big ship. and you don't turn it on a dime. but at least we know we're headed home,'' goldinger said
exports have been climbing in recent months under pressure from a weaker dollar _ which makes u.s. goods more competitive abroad while driving up the price of imports
government and private economists have suggested that an export boom could be the major factor in finally bringing down the trade deficit, which has been increasing steadily since the late 1970s
the united states continued to run its largest deficit with japan _ $59.8 billion in 1987, up from $58.6 billion in 1986
the deficit with western europe, however, narrowed to $30.2 billion from $32.7 billion. the deficit with taiwan increased to $19.0 billion from $15.7 billion. and with canada, it was down to $11.7 billion from $13.2 billion
the deficit with south korea in 1987 was $9.9 billion, up from $7.1 billion in 1986. with hong kong, it was up to $6.5 billion from $6.4 billion. and with mexico, the u.s. trade shortfall rose to $5.9 billion from $5.2 billion in 1986
for december alone, the trade defcit with japan was $4.8 billion, about the same as november; with western europe, $2.7 billion, up from $2.4 billion; with canada, $632.8 million, down from $1.3 billion; with taiwan, $1.1 billion, down from $1.2 billion; with south korea, $762.8 million, up from $760.2 million
imports for all of 1987 were up 10.7 percent while exports rose 11.5 percent. that compares to an 8.7 percent rise in imports in 1986 and only a 3.7 percent rise in exports
for the full year, imports of manufactured goods rose to $325.2 billion, from $293.8 billion. oil imports surged to $44.8 billion from $37.6 billion
meanwhile, exports of u.s. manufactured goods were up to $171.5 billion, from $148.7 billion in 1986
in agricultural goods, one of the few categories where the united states maintained a trade surplus, exports were up to $28.6 billion from $26.1 billion in 1987
new car imports from japan were $2.0 billion in december, the same level as in november. for the year, car imports from japan totaled $22.2 billion, up slightly from $22.0 billion in 1986
new auto imports from canada were $1.0 billion in december, down from $1.2 billion in november _ and $10.2 billion for the year, down from $11.8 billion in 1986
from other countries, auto imports were $1.6 billion, up from $1.5 billion in november _ and $16.8 billion for all of 1987, up from $12.7 billion
the monthly trade figures _ which governmment analysts caution can be misleading because they are not adjusted for either seasonal factors or inflation _ have become one of the most closely watched set of government statistics by financial markets
in fact, the task force appointed by president reagan to study the market collapse identified a weaker-than-expected trade report released in early october as one factor triggering the 508-point stock price plunge
a weaker dollar can help ease the u.s. trade deficit by making imports more expensive and u.s. goods more competitive abroad. but reports of a smaller trade deficit tend to raise the value of the dollar _ which in turn can cause the deficit to widen
the reagan administration in past months has joined with its major economic allies in seeking a stable dollar against other key currencies. too rapid a fall in the value of the dollar can produce inflation
the dollar has fallen 50 percent since mid-1985 against the japanese yen and key european currencies
the stock market gained ground today in what analysts described as a muted response to news of a smaller u.s. trade deficit
the dow jones average of 30 industrials rose 23.87 to 1,985.41 in the first half hour of trading
gainers outnumbered losers by more than 3 to 1 in the early tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 769 up, 239 down and 427 unchanged
volume on the big board came to 43.58 million shares as of 10 a.m. on wall street
before the market opened the commerce department reported that the nation's trade deficit narrowed to $12.20 billion in december from $13.22 billion the month before
the figure came in at the low end of analysts' estimates, and lent support to the growing belief that the international trade situation was improving. american exports set a record for the second straight month
but analysts said traders in the stock and bond markets didn't see the news as purely positive
given the strength it showed in u.s. manufacturing, they said, the chances seemed less that the federal reserve might soon relax its credit policy further. interest rates rose and prices declined in the credit markets
gainers among the blue chips included international business machines, up 1] at 112|; general electric, up { at 43|; ford motor, up | at 43{, and american telephone &amp; telegraph, up \ at 29|
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks rose 1.41 to 145.40. at the american stock exchange, the market value index was up 1.87 at 276.27
on thursday the dow jones industrial average slipped .50 to 1,961.54
advancing issues outnumbered declines by about 8 to 7 on the nyse, with 810 up, 707 down and 446 unchanged. big board volume totaled 200.76 million shares, against 187.98 million in the previous session
toyota motor sales usa is working on a plan that could result in the export of small airplanes to the far east, a company official says
brian barents, a toyota vice president hired recently from cessna aircraft co. of wichita, kan., said the potential deal would help reduce the u.s. trade imbalance with the far east
the government announced today that its deficit with japan for last year rose to $59.8 billion, from $58.6 billion in 1986
analysts said they doubted the plan would have much of an impact on the trade deficit because of the small airplane market in japan
we're having discussions but nothing is finalized,'' barents said from company headquarters in torrance, calif
toyota officials said the deal would involve the export of planes made by cessna, a subsidiary of general dynamics corp. barents, in a story published in today's detroit free press, declined to say how many airplanes would be involved or when export would begin
he said the plan called for toyota to export cessna's largest airplanes, including corporate jets
cessna spokesman dean humphrey declined to comment. explanation of energy price decline, other price increases; also moved on general newswires</note>
wholesale prices rose a brisk 0.4 percent in january as higher food costs more than offset declines in energy prices, the government said today
the rise in the labor department's producer price index negated a 0.4 percent decline in december and was the steepest monthly increase since an identical 0.4 percent jump in september
january's rise, if it persisted for 12 months, would amount to an annual inflation rate of 4.6 percent, compared with the 2.2 percent increase for all of 1987. economists, however, still expect that wholesale prices will moderate through the balance of 1988
food prices increased 1.7 percent in january, rebounding from a 1.4 percent decline in december
analysts said an insect infestation in california and arizona pushed up vegetable prices, while cold weather influenced a rise in chicken and pork prices
the increase included a 16.2 percent surge vegetable prices. lettuce shot up 51.6 percent in janaury. that comes atop a 10.5 percent increase in december and a 95.4 percent jump in november. celery rocketed 44.1 percent and onions 32.5 percent
prices for pork were up 13.2 percent; egg costs jumped 12.5 percent; chicken prices went up 5.6 percent
costs also rose for rice, macaroni products and fish. declines were posted for turkeys, off 12.4 percent, and fresh fruits, down 3.0 percent
natural gas prices edged up 0.8 percent after a 3.0 percent increase in december. but steep declines were recorded for other forms of energy, which overall fell 4.5 percent, compared with a decline of 1.6 percent a month earlier
gasoline prices fell 8.4 percent after dropping 4.2 percent in december. home heating oil costs dropped 6.2 percent, compared with a 5.2 percent fall a month before
donald ratajczak, who runs his own inflation surveys as director of economic forecasting at georgia state university in atlanta, said falling energy prices reflect ``a little bit of a glut'' on the oil market
the industry, historically, takes a long time to adjust its production to price changes and there is still some overproduction stemming from oil price increases in the early 1980s, he said
minus the usually volatile food and energy categories, the index for all other finished goods rose a brisk 0.5 percent, compared with a 0.2 percent increase in december
ratajczak said this figure was pushed higher by publishers of newspapers and magazines and producers of items sold through catalogs, who tend to raise their prices once at the beginning of each year
the labor department gave these other specifics on january wholesale price activity:
_new automobile prices were up 0.2 percent, following a 1.9 percent drop in december
_alcoholic beverage costs were up 0.1 percent after a 0.3 percent increase a month earlier
_household appliance prices were down 0.2 percent, compared with an 0.2 percent increase in december
_home electronic equipment costs fell 0.2 percent after dropping 0.5 percent earlier
gains were also posted for adults' and children's clothing and shoes
the figures are adjusted to remove predictable seasonal price fluctuations
the wholesale price calculation excludes services and imports, areas of the economy where price increases have been more rapid in part because of the falling dollar, which makes foreign products more expensive
the consumer price index, which tracks prices at the retail level and includes services and imports, is due out feb. 26 for january. inflation at the consumer level was 4.4 percent in 1987
the january increase left the overall producer price index, which is not seasonally adjusted, at 106.2 percent of its 1982 base-period average
that means that a selection of goods costing $10 in 1982 cost $10.62 last month, up from $10.57 in december and $10.40 in january 1987
the government used the 1982 base for the first time in the january report. it had used a 1967 base since 1971. a selection of goods that cost $10 in 1967, cost $29.80 last month, up from $29.68 in december and $29.18 in january 1987
the labor department, with the january report, also revised its seasonal adjustments for the past five years, changing previously reported percent changes in many categories
michael evans, president of his own economic consulting firm in washington, said a modest rebound in wholesale inflation may spook the bond market and send long-term interest rates up
but lawrence chimerine, president of the wefa group, a philadelphia-area forecasting service, said the markets will be looking more closely at december trade deficit figures, also released this morning
generally speaking, inflation is still pretty mild,'' chimerine said
ratajczak predicts moderate wholesale inflation of 2.6 percent for 1988 and a more robust 3.9 percent in 1989
the major thrust of the (1988) increase is ... higher farm prices, especially for the grains, and a slight increase in (energy) prices,'' he said. ``... our current estimates suggest that reacceleration of significant inflationary pressures may develop in 1989 as oil prices rise.'' says</head>
an agreement has been reached between union construction crews and amoco corp., ending a four-month labor dispute at the whiting, ind., refinery
a union official said thursday the chicago-based oil company had agreed to use only union contractors. in return, the unions agreed to call off picketing and a campaign calling for a union consumer boycott of amoco's gas stations
g. russell bassett, president of the northwest indiana building and construction trades council, said the chicago-based oil company agreed to use only union contractors for any refinery construction work in the future
the dispute began in october, when amoco hired non-union contractors for $10 million worth of construction and renovation work at the 99-year-old refinery. the work was completed recently despite the presence of union picket lines
more than 55 people were arrested and several were injured during the first days of the picketing, which drew as many as 1,000 union members
in a move to put economic pressure on amoco, the unions withdrew at least $100 million in funds from chicago banks that had amoco executives on their boards of directors. bassett said redepositing of that money was not part of the settlement worked out with the company
resolution of the dispute came several days after members of the oil, chemical and atomic workers union endorsed a two-year contract covering the whiting refinery and other amoco installations around the country
all parties are gratified with the settlement and are looking forward to a resumption of work,'' amoco said in a statement thursday. prices jump</head> inventories; uppicks 7th graf pvs: on thursday...</note>
the nation's deficit in foreign trade stood at a lower-than-expected $12.2 billion in december, while business inventories jumped, the government said today. it also said wholesale prices rose a brisk 0.4 percent in january
the trade figure was the lowest in 11 months, reflecting a surge in exports, commerce department officials said
for the year, the trade deficit widened to a record $171.2 billion, the largest ever. but financial markets were expected to pay more attention to the december numbers, which came two months after the oct. 19 stock market crash
meanwhile, the labor department said higher food costs more than offset declines in energy prices last month, easily wiping out a 0.4 percent decline in december's producer price index
it was the steepest monthly increase since an identical 0.4 percent jump in september, and would amount to an annual inflation rate of 4.6 percent _ if it persisted all year. the annual rate of increase for all of 1987 was 2.2 percent
analysts still expect that wholesale prices will moderate through the balance of 1988, however
in another report, the commerce department said business inventories shot up 0.8 percent in december, the third consecutive large monthly advance
the december increase pushed unsold stockpiles on shelves and backlots up by $5.45 billion to a seasonally adjusted $701.87 billion. the increase followed even larger gains of 0.9 percent in november and 1.1 percent in october
while the economy, as measured by the gross national product, expanded at a brisk 4.2 percent annual rate in the final three months of the year, nearly three-fourths of that growth came from an unusually large buildup in inventories which was occurring at the same time that consumer spending was falling
because of this combination, many analysts believe growth in the first three months of 1988 will be extremely sluggish, with some analysts even forecasting one quarter of negative gnp growth
on thursday, the commerce department said retail sales activity posted its third monthly increase in january, as a rebound in auto sales boosted the key economic sector
some economists said january's 0.5 percent rise in retail sales reflected a continued recovery in consumer confidence that was jarred during the october stock market crash
in addition to the january rise, the government revised upward the sales gains reported for the two previous months. sales were up a strong 1.2 percent in december and 0.3 percent in november, compared with previous estimates of 0.7 percent and 0.1 percent, respectively
because consumer spending accounts for two-thirds of overall economic activity, analysts have been watching it closely for signs of a slowdown in the wake of the crash
but although january's gains were supported by a 1.6 percent rise in auto sales, some analysts said the figures were strong enough to indicate consumers were not dragging the economy into a recession
sales had declined by a sharp 0.9 percent in october and 1.7 percent in september
retail establishments sold $128.1 billion worth of goods in january, up $600 million from december, the government said. it was the highest monthly total since august, when sales hit $128.9 billion
a separate government report indicated severely cold weather boosted americans' home heating bills by nearly a half-billion dollars in january
the survey by the national oceanic and atmospheric administration indicated home heating cost americans $9.98 billion in january, $470 million more than if weather for the month had been average
that means the typical home owner or renter spent $138.80 on oil, gas or electricity to keep warm last month, $6.54 more than the bill would have been in a normal january
costs vary considerably across the country, but bills were above normal in every area except the pacific coast, according to the monthly report
in other economic news on thursday, a selective midwinter review of the farm labor situation by the agriculture department showed there were about 11 percent more hired workers on the job than a year ago
a quarterly report showed about 340,000 workers hired by farmers were on the job during a survey in the week jan. 10-16, compared with 307,000 a year earlier
the stock market advanced broadly today in what analysts described as a muted response to news of a smaller u.s. trade deficit
the dow jones average of 30 industrials rose 16.74 to 1,978.28 by 11 a.m. on wall street
gainers outnumbered losers by more than 2 to 1 in the overall tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 816 up, 390 down and 491 unchanged
volume on the big board came to 72.64 million shares at midmorning
before the market opened the commerce department reported that the nation's trade deficit narrowed to $12.20 billion in december from $13.22 billion the month before
the figure came in at the low end of analysts' estimates, and lent support to the growing belief that the international trade situation was improving. american exports set a record for the second straight month
but analysts said traders in the stock and bond markets didn't see the news as purely positive
given the strength it showed in u.s. manufacturing, they said, the chances seemed less that the federal reserve might soon relax its credit policy further. interest rates rose and prices declined in the credit markets
another apparent drag on the markets was the labor department's report that the producer price index of finished goods rose 0.4 percent in january, after falling about the same amount in december
gainers among the blue chips included international business machines, up 1[ at 112]; general electric, up [ at 43\; ford motor, up { at 43], and exxon, up } at 41
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks added .81 to 144.80. at the american stock exchange, the market value index was up 1.66 at 276.06
grain and soybean futures prices opened lower today on the chicago board of trade
wheat futures weakened in advance of this afternoon's weekly agriculture department auction of surplus wheat stocks, analysts said. the agency had said it expected to sell 25 million bushels of wheat today
corn futures were slightly lower on indications of increased farmer selling of the grain
soybeans were lower on a lack of follow-through buying from thursday's strong close
early trading volume was light ahead of the three-day presidents' day weekend
in early trading, wheat was { cent to 2 cents lower with the contract for delivery in march at $3.27 a bushel; corn was } cent to 1\ cents lower with march at $2.01} a bushel; oats were { cent to } cent lower with march at $1.88} a bushel; soybeans were 1} cent to 2 cents lower with march at $6.19 a bushel
livestock and meat futures were mostly lower in early trading on the chicago mercantile exchange
live cattle were .08 cent to .25 cent lower with february at 71.55 cents a pound; feeder cattle were .10 cent to .55 cent lower with september at 77.75 cents a pound; hogs were .30 cent lower to .48 cent higher with february at 47.30 cents a pound; frozen pork bellies were .20 cent to .42 cent lower with february at 56.10 cents a pound
livestock and meat futures closed lower on thursday. conform. pickup 6th graf `on the...'</note>
leaders of the 12-nation european economic community looked for a way out of the trading bloc's financial crisis during an emergency summit today
the two-day summit, which began thursday, stalled for several hours through the morning as west german chancellor helmut kohl, the summmit chairman, met separately with several leaders. the meeting resumed midafternoon
the summit adjourned within minutes of the morning opening after france and germany threw out proposals for relatively stringent curbs on the trade bloc's runaway farm spending after seeing detailed costings drawn up overnight by officials
france, seeking less painful measures for its farmers as the spring presidential election looms, declared it could yield no more, while british prime minister margaret thatcher and dutch premier ruud lubbers held out for austerity
through most of the morning, the leaders sat around in groups with their foreign ministers in the main conference room at the eec headquarters chatting informally
kohl, striving to head off a third successive eec summit failure in eight months, met separately with french premier jacques chirac, lubbers, mrs. thatcher and spanish prime minister felipe gonzalez
on the steep and difficult climb toward the summit there is a dense fog and some people have lost their way,'' west german government spokesman friedhelm ost told reporters
he said kohl wanted ``a success, but not a success at any price.''
earlier, french agriculture minister francois guillaume, said in a french radio interview that ``france has no more to give on the agriculture issue.''
when you reach a certain moment, you have to know how to say no,'' said guillaume
dutch spokesman nic-jan jonker told reporters, ``it is wrong to assume that the netherlands will give in.''
in paris, angry farmers today plowed furrows in the champ de mars, a park near the eiffel tower, to protest some eec members' proposals for cuts in farm spending
about 50 people participated in the demonstration. they dug several furrows, then left peacefully when police arrived shortly after noon
european leaders argued late into the night thursday in an effort to reach agreement on a number of issues. kohl urged them to forget their national interests, saying, ``national go-it-alone policies are doomed to fail now.''
the common market members are grappling with these interrelated issues:
_curbing agriculture spending that totaled $33.8 billion last year, or two-thirds of the total eec budget
_raising funds for regional development in the eec's poorest areas of spain, portugal, greece and ireland
_devising a new eec funding formula based on the relative wealth of each member state, which now contribute 1.4 percent of their sales taxes
two previous summits failed to produce agreement on any of these issues. lacking a 1988 budget, the community is now operating at last year's funding levels
britain and the netherlands want the eec's farm spending to be raised by $625,000 in 1988. france and west germany, both with politically powerful farming lobbies, have sought an increase of $3.1 billion
france also wants production of cereals, a commodity already in gross oversupply, to be held at 160 million tons annually, as opposed to 155 million tons as demanded by the dutch and the british
if we accede to the french, we face severe trade problems (with the united states and other producers). it is not a budgetary issue,'' dutch foreign minister hans van den broek told reporters after the summit's first day
but france joined the rich northern countries to defeat proposals for nearly doubling the $8.8 billion allowance for regional development. britain and other northern nations seek an increase of just 50 percent
stock prices rose today in what analysts described as a muted response to news of a smaller u.s. trade deficit
the dow jones average of 30 industrials climbed 15.91 to 1,977.45 by noontime on wall street
gainers outnumbered losers by more than 2 to 1 in the overall tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 856 up, 418 down and 522 unchanged
before the market opened the commerce department reported that the nation's trade deficit narrowed to $12.20 billion in december from $13.22 billion the month before
the figure came in at the low end of analysts' estimates, and lent support to the growing belief that the international trade situation was improving. american exports set a record for the second straight month
but analysts said traders in the stock and bond markets didn't see the news as purely positive
given the strength it showed in u.s. manufacturing, they said, the chances seemed less that the federal reserve might soon relax its credit policy further. interest rates rose and prices declined in the credit markets
another apparent drag on the markets was the labor department's report that the producer price index of finished goods rose 0.4 percent in january, after falling about the same amount in december
gainers among the blue chips included international business machines, up 1 at 112\; general electric, up [ at 43\; ford motor, up { at 43], and exxon, up ~ at 41[
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks added .94 to 144.93. at the american stock exchange, the market value index was up 1.96 at 276.36
volume on the big board came to 113.17 million shares at noontime, against 107.27 million at the same point thursday
belgium's largest bank friday announced it entered a ``banking alliance'' with one of the biggest dutch banks to form a major european financial group
the dutch amro bank and the belgian generale de banque s.a will try to set up ``an integrated multinational banking group within three years,'' said generale de banque's chairman, eric de villegas de clercamp
officials said the two banks launched the venture by acquiring partial ownership of each other and by putting funds into a joint holding company, tuba holding international bv
each of the two partners has a 50 percent capital stake in tuba, which will be managed on a joint basis
de villegas de clercamp denied that the agreement had been made with amro to head off a possible bid by italian investor carlo de benedetti, who is trying to take effective control of societe generale de belgique s.a, belgium's biggest holding company
societe generale has a 13.4 percent stake in generale de banque
de villegas de clercamp acknowledged, however, that the battle for control of societe generale gave rise to the feeling that the bank's clients' trust and confidence may have been shaken
he said societe generale, which has three seats on the bank's board, had given general approval for the project _ but when it came to a vote, the three representatives had abstained ``for personal reasons.'' he did not elaborate
deposits of generale de banque amounted to $52.047 billion while amro bank's deposits $58.343 billion, based on 1986 statistics
the generale de banque chairman said the two banks were forming the alliance to prepare ``for the intense competition which must be faced,'' after 1992
the european economic community has targeted that year for a complete end to barriers in the exchange of goods, capital and trade among the 12 member nations
here is the commerce department's country-by-country breakdown of the u.s. trade deficit, both for all of 1987 and for december. all figures are deficits _ negative trade balances _ unless otherwise noted
overall deficit: $171.2 billion in 1987, from $156.2 billion in 1986; $12.2 billion in december from $13.2 billion in 1986
japan _ $59.8 billion in 1987 from $58.6 billion in 1986; $4.8 billion in december, same level as november
western europe _ $30.2 billion, from $32.7 billion in 1986; $2.7 billion in december from $2.4 billion in november
taiwan _ $19.0 billion, from $15.7 billion; $1.1 billion in decmeber from $1.2 billion in november
opec _ $14.7 billion, from $10.7 billion in 1986; $887.2 million in december, from $1.1 billion in november
canada _ $11.7 billion, from $13.2 billion in 1986; $632.8 million in december, from $1.2 billion in november
south korea _ $9.9 billion, from $7.1 billion in 1986; $762.8 million in december, from $468 million in november
hong kong _ $6.5 billion, from $6.4 billion in 1986; $406 million in december, from $468 million in november
mexico _ $5.9 billion, from $5.2 billion in november; $442.6 million in december, from $389.2 million in november
brazil _ $4.4 billion, from $3.5 billion in 1986; $390.2 million in december, from $374.9 million in november
singapore _ $2.3 billion, from $1.5 billion in 1986; $208.6 million in december, from $199.1 million in november
major u.s. banks aren't expected to participate in mexico's innovative debt-reduction plan, an american banker said friday
a senior official at swiss bank corp., however, said his bank will tender some of its loans
the bankers made their comments at a london conference on latin america organized by the international herald tribune and the inter-american development bank
under the program, the mexican government plans to exchange some of the debt it owes foreign commercial banks for new, 20-year bonds that will be issued by the government and backed by u.s. treasury bonds
mexican officials have indicated they expect to retire $20 billion of debt through the $10 billion bond issue. the country has $105.6 billion in total outstanding debt
in a statement released late wednesday, the mexican treasury department said it asked its approximately 600 creditor banks permission to offer the bonds and that it received majority approval on feb. 5
but richard marin, a senior vice president at bankers trust co., told the conference, ``i do not believe any major u.s. banks will tender'' their loans under the mexican plan
u.s. banks have provisions equal to about 25 percent of their third world loan exposure and this won't cover the 50 percent discount at which mexico expects the banks to swap their loans, marin said
marin indicated that the mexican plan to swap loans for new bonds is designed for smaller u.s. regional banks that wish to dump their mexican exposure
franz lutolf, general manager at swiss bank corp. said his bank will submit a bid, and called the plan a ``step in the right direction.''
lutolf wouldn't say at what discount his bank would tender its loans but indicated it would be above 50 percent of face value. ``fifty percent won't fly,'' he said
an official at swiss bank corp. in basel, who refused to be identified, said the bank plans to tender about one-third of its mexican loans but wouldn't say how large its exposure is
the official said swiss banks must have provisions equal to at least 35 percent of their third world exposure and that his bank is comfortably above that level
auction of the bonds had been tentatively set for feb. 26, a week later than initially planned. dollars</head>
canada's merchandise trade surplus shrank to 208 million canadian dollars in december, or about $164 million, the lowest monthly surplus since september 1981, statistics canada said friday
the december surplus, down from a revised 402 million canadian dollars in november, left the full year's surplus at the lowest level in seven years
the 1987 surplus totaled 10.3 billion canadian dollars, or about $8.1 billion, down marginally from 10.4 billion canadian dollars in 1986, the agency said
the surplus with the united states, canada's most important trading partner, declined to 17 billion canadian dollars from 18.4 billion canadian dollars in 1986. those numbers are reconciled with the united states
paul kovacs, senior economist at the burns fry investment house in toronto, said he had expected 1987 would have ended with a much stronger trade surplus _ the result of canada exporting more goods than it imported
we clearly had a deteriorating trend at the end of the year, which is disturbing,'' said kovacs
exports grew by 4.1 per cent in 1987 from the previous year, rising to 125.8 billion canadian dollars largely on strong foreign sales of forest products
however, imports increased at the slightly quicker pace of 4.7 per cent during the year to reach 115.4 billion canadian dollars by year end
meanwhile, the trade deficit with japan, the no. 2 trading partner, fell to 691 million canadian dollars from more than 1.6 billion canadian dollars the year before
statistics canada said the rise in exports was mainly the result of an increase of 3.2 billion canadian dollars in forest-product sales that came despite export taxes canada was forced to impose on softwood lumber because of american action
however, foreign sales of automotive products from canada fell by 2.2 billion canadian dollars to 32 billion canadian dollars
merchandise trade is only about half of canada's total trade picture, with the rest coming in service sectors such as tourism, shipping and consulting
we expect to receive president reagan's fiscal 1989 budget on thursday, feb. 18 at 8 a.m. est for immediate release

the ap is planning the following coverage for friday ams:

am-budget rdp
am-budget-analysis
am-budget-what's next, the legislative process and how it works
am-budget-economic assumptions, the administration's estimates for inflation, unemployment, interest rates and the gross national product
am-budget-individual impact, how people will be affected by the budget
am-budget-aids and health, including medicare
am-budget-defense
am-budget-foreign aid, including contra aid
am-budget-space and science
am-budget-education
am-budget-water projects
am-budget-farm
bc-budget-wrapup, budget in thumbnail under subheads
bc-budget-reagan excerpts, from reagan's budget message
bc-budget-at-a-glance

we also will move assorted tables

the ap
gov. tommy thompson asked wisconsin's attorney general today to prepare a lawsuit against chrysler corp. because of its plans to close its automaking plant in kenosha, wis., but left open the possibility of a settlement
thompson said it was possible an agreement could be reached with chrysler before the issue actually goes to court
asked about the odds of the matter actually ending up in court, thompson replied, ``i don't want to engage in a percentage'' at this time
the governor stressed that, in such matters, it is always desirable to negotiate before going to court
that would certainly spare the trauma. it would be better off for both parties to settle'' without going to court, he said
the attorney general has advised me ... that we do have a good and winnable case,'' said thompson, who was joined at a news conference by attorney general don hanaway
thompson said it could be some time before the suit is filed over chrysler's decision to lay off 5,500 workers in kenosha
he said he talked tuesday with chrysler chairman lee iacocca and would meet later with other chrysler officials. he declined to say where or when the meeting would occur
the lawsuit is a type of thing that can be won in several ways,'' thompson said
the governor said he has asked hanaway to check with local government officials in kenosha and with united auto workers union local 72 at the chrysler plant there to see if they want to join in the lawsuit
thompson repeated his contention that chrysler's decision to abandon automaking in kenosha was political and not economic
he said omni-horizon cars were being produced at kenosha efficiently and were of the highest quality
there is no reason,'' he said, ``for chrysler not to live up'' to what the state contends was an agreement by the automaker to produce the cars at the plant for five years
all of us at chrysler are very sorry that the plant had to be closed. we also feel very deeply for the pain and suffering'' of the workers and community, chrysler motors chairman gerald greenwald said at a news conference in chicago after thompson's announcement
i guess you could say chrysler was overly optimistic'' when it told workers and government officials in wisconsin that it believed it could build the omni-horizon small car at kenosha for up to five years, greenwald said
but we never lied to anyone and we believe there are no grounds for a lawsuit claiming we did lie,'' he said
greenwald said chrysler will repay the city and county of kenosha more than $1 million the governments spent on improvements for the plant
my position is the retention of 5,500 jobs for five years,'' thompson said. ``those jobs don't necessarily have to be automobile jobs. they could be other manufacturing jobs.''
hanaway said it had not been decided precisely what wisconsin would seek in the suit, but he said the state probably would ask the court for an injunction to delay the layoffs
thompson, asked if defense contracts for the plant might be something the state would go after, replied: ``i think that is a possibility.''
in fiscal year 1987, chrysler corp. and three subsidiaries _ electrospace systems inc., gulfstream aerospace and american motors corp. _ were awarded 375 pentagon contracts worth more than $268 million
in the first two months of fiscal 1988, the contractors won $11 million in contracts
the stock market advanced moderately today in what analysts described as a muted response to news of a smaller u.s. trade deficit
the dow jones average of 30 industrials climbed 18.57 to 1,980.11 by 2 p.m. on wall street
gainers outnumbered losers by 2 to 1 in the overall tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 933 up, 466 down and 499 unchanged
before the market opened the commerce department reported that the nation's trade deficit narrowed to $12.20 billion in december from $13.22 billion the month before
the figure came in at the low end of analysts' estimates, and lent support to the growing belief that the international trade situation was improving. american exports set a record for the second straight month
but analysts said traders in the stock and bond markets didn't see the news as purely positive
given the strength it showed in u.s. manufacturing, they said, the chances seemed less that the federal reserve might soon relax its credit policy further. interest rates rose and prices declined in the credit markets
another apparent drag on the markets was the labor department's report that the producer price index of finished goods rose 0.4 percent in january, after falling about the same amount in december
gainers among the blue chips included international business machines, up | at 111~; general motors, up 1] at 67; eastman kodak, up } at 42|, and exxon, up \ at 40{
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks added .85 to 144.84. at the american stock exchange, the market value index was up 2.13 at 276.53
volume on the big board came to 140.52 million shares with two hours to go
stock prices rose only moderately on friday despite news of an improvement in the u.s. trade deficit
the financial times-stock exchange 100-stock index was up 4.2 points, or 0.2 percent, at 1,734.0 at the close
volume was a low 323.4 million shares, down from 352.7 million shares a day earlier
the market was calm for most of the morning session as investors awaited the release of the u.s. trade data. but it responded only moderately to the better-than-expected report
the 100-stock index rose briefly to its session peak of 5.1 points higher after the figures were released
the u.s. commerce department said the merchandise trade deficit narrowed to $12.2 billion in december from a november deficit of $13.22 billion
analysts were bemused by the lack of response to the trade report
it was a day with nothing but good news for equities, but the market didn't do anything,'' said ian harwood, an analyst at warburg securities
the market's mood seems to be to look for bad news all the time,'' he said
harwood attributed the modest response to continued lack of institutional buying of british shares
the dollar jumped higher against most major foreign currencies in moderate european trading friday, following news that the u.s. trade deficit shrank to $12.2 billion in december from $13.2 billion the previous month
gold prices also moved up
the dollar surged quickly after the trade figures were reported, but profit-taking pushed it back somewhat
the dollar finished with a gain of almost two cents against the british pound and more than two pfennigs against the west german mark. it also gained more than two yen against the japanese yen, but that increase was spread over two days because thursday was a national holiday in japan
it was a good (trade) number,'' said one london dealer, ``but overall it's still too early to say the dollar has turned a corner.''
dealers were heartened by the news that exports rose 4.2 percent to a record $24.8 billion, while imports were unchanged at $37 billion
the report also showed the deficit with japan narrowed to $4.79 billion from $4.85 billion
however, dealers said they are reserving judgment on the dollar's upside potential until monday, when japanese trade data for january will be released
a significant reduction in the u.s. trade deficit with japan would support the dollar's bullish undertone, dealers said
the dollar rose above 130 japanese yen for the first time since mid-december, trading at 131.15 yen in london, up from 129.95 earlier in tokyo, and up from 129.03 yen in tokyo on wednesday
other late dollar rates in europe, compared with late rates thursday, included: 1.7123 west german marks, up from 1.6885; 1.4065 swiss francs, up from 1.3870; 5.7865 french francs, up from 5.7135; 1.9225 dutch guilders, up from 1.8961; 1,260.75 italian lire, up from 1,246.65; and 1.2624 canadian dollars, down from 1.2663
the british pound fell to $1.7401 from $1.7595 late thursday
gold rose in london to a late bid price of $443 a troy ounce, compared with late thursday's $441.50
in zurich, gold was higher, closing at a bid $443.50 compared with $441 late thursday
earlier, the metal closed in hong kong at a bid of $443.69, down from $443.93
silver bullion prices rose on the london market where the metal was trading at a late bid price of $6.34 a troy ounce, compared with $6.31 late thursday
toymaker mattel inc. on friday posted losses of $100.7 million for the fourth quarter and $113.2 million for the year, with virtually all the red ink accounted for by restructuring costs
the maker of barbie dolls, hot wheels and other toys also disclosed it has trimmed its headquarters staff by 22 percent over the last year, to 1,720 workers from 2,200
mattel's troubles reflect a malaise in the toy industry that persisted through much of last year
the company's $100.7 million deficit for the three months ended dec. 26 compared with a loss of $26.9 million the previous year. revenue was off by 14 percent to $233.8 million from $271.9 million
the most recent period included $61.8 million in restructuring expenses and debt restructuring costs
for the full year, the company's deficit of $113.2 million, compared to a loss of $8.3 million in 1986, came on a 3.7 percent decline in revenue to $1.02 billion from $1.06 billion
the 1987 results included $96 million in restructuring expenses
last month, in the wake of a bitter strike at its production facility in manila, mattel announced it would close that plant and pull out of the philippines
mattel, which does all of its manufacturing overseas, shifted the philippines work to elsewhere in the orient. that action was not a factor in the company's restructuring, which dealt only with changes at the company's headquarters
the stock market gained ground today in a muted response to news of a smaller u.s. trade deficit
the dow jones average of 30 industrials climbed 15.42 to 1,976.96 by 3 p.m. on wall street
gainers outnumbered losers by 8 to 5 in the overall tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 886 up, 558 down and 487 unchanged
before the market opened the commerce department reported that the nation's trade deficit narrowed to $12.20 billion in december from $13.22 billion the month before
the figure came in at the low end of analysts' estimates, and lent support to the growing belief that the international trade situation was improving. american exports set a record for the second straight month
but analysts said traders in the stock and bond markets didn't see the news as purely positive
given the strength it showed in u.s. manufacturing, they said, the chances seemed less that the federal reserve might soon relax its credit policy further. interest rates rose and prices declined in the credit markets
another apparent drag on the markets was the labor department's report that the producer price index of finished goods rose 0.4 percent in january, after falling about the same amount in december
gainers among the blue chips included international business machines, up | at 111~; general motors, up 1\ at 66~; eastman kodak, up | at 42{, and exxon, up \ at 40{
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks added .57 to 144.56. at the american stock exchange, the market value index was up 2.07 at 276.47
volume on the big board came to 155.47 million shares with an hour to go
soybean futures prices leaped higher friday in the last hour of trading on the chicago board of trade. grain futures closed mixed
the soybean rally was sparked by one large speculative firm, which began snapping up soybean futures and options contracts late in the session, analysts said
the runup triggered computer-controlled buy stops, ``and up she went,'' said victor lespinasse, a trader for the investment firm dean witter reynolds inc
the august contract gained 10\ cents a bushel
mickey luth of shearson lehman brothers inc. said the initial surge may have been linked to rising european demand for soybean meal
corn prices retreated slightly on rumors the agriculture department plans to begin auctioning off surplus corn stocks in april. the program would supposedly be similar to the usda's successful weekly wheat auctions, begun in november, which have increased the supply of wheat on the open market
wheat futures advanced in line with soybeans
at the close, wheat was { cent to 3} cents higher with the contract for delivery in march at $3.32{ a bushel; corn was 1\ cents to 2 cents lower with march at $2.00} a bushel; oats were unchanged to 1 cent higher with march at $1.90{ a bushel; soybeans were 3 cents to 10\ cents higher with march at $6.28 a bushel.  
it's the ultimate valentine's day challenge for lingerie retailers: can you top this bottom?
from rhinestone-studded undies to briefs fitted with music boxes to a club that delivers perfumed, gift-wrapped panties, the lingerie industry is shedding its cotton-drawer image and exploiting the holiday of the heart
some insiders say that for this special sub-category of women's clothing retailers, valentine's day is second only to christmas when it comes to racking up holiday sales. their most compelling sales pitch is that no matter how scanty, lingerie lasts longer than roses and isn't fattening like chocolates
lila williams thinks her panty-of-the-month club covers the territory when it comes to imaginative love tokens. this brooklyn-based entrepreneur promises to put one pair of scented, gift-wrapped designer briefs in the mailbox for $16.50 each month
men are the main purchasers of her hidden couture _ she estimates 95 percent of the subscriptions to her panty club have been bought by men
with more than 1,000 customers, williams makes sure the package and panty are ``color-coded to the season.'' last year's april easter pair had a ``furry, detachable bunny tail;'' the july ``firework special'' was, of course red, white and blue; and new year's pair was silver silk
williams said she hand-dyed 600 pieces of lingerie to a minty green for last st. patrick's day, her third-biggest sales period. this year, however, she found emerald satin panties trimmed with champagne lace. and don't forget the optional ``erin go bra'' bra
but frederick's of hollywood's $10 pair of musical panties is a tough contender
cleverly hidden amid what little red-and-white lace makes up this undergarment, which a company spokeswoman described as ``very small,'' is a tiny computer box that can chirp out a rendition of ``let me call you sweetheart'' at the pull of a string
though long considered outside the realm of high-class lingerie, frederick's has managed to spawn 150 stores nationwide and post annual sales in the $58 million range, spokeswoman ellen appel said
for those who want to be a bit more extravagant, bloomingdale's in new york is selling rhinestone-studded red silk panties for $100 a pair. the matching camisole carries a $250 price tag
the idea of sleaziness is leaving the american scene,'' said carol palmer, an analyst with duff &amp; phelps inc. in chicago. ``just look at how the square footage for lingerie in department stores is increasing.''
indeed, the last few years have seen a ``coming out of lingerie as a real fashion item,'' said kurt barnard, a retail marketing consultant and publisher of the newsletter retail marketing report
over a year ago, for example, bloomingdale's flagship manhattan store moved its lingerie department from the more pedestrian ground floor to upstairs, next to designer clothing, a spokeswoman said
the industry is growing rather fast,'' barnard said, pointing to the limited inc. as one major retailer that has focused on lingerie with its 237-store victoria's secret chain
it's likely we'll see more and more stores affiliated'' with lingerie spinoffs, barnard predicted
the actual size of the industry is difficult to gauge, partly because many of the players are private companies and because the industry does not have a trade association
but ray mcinerney, publisher of intimate fashion news, said his publication reported 1986 intimate apparel sales totaled $5.6 billion
while trailing sleepwear, which posted 1986 sales of $1.42 billion, and bras, which totaled $1.34 billion, sales of panties reached $1.1 billion and ranked ahead of robes, slips and girdles
williams finds panties the most essential item. she notes they come in ``the most colors and styles, they're the least expensive and most needed'' piece of intimate apparel
this year has spurred a major growth in pants,'' said lisa goldstein, fashion editor for intimate apparel at women's wear daily. she says there's a ``silhouette to fit any figure,'' from bikinis to petits pants
even the g-string and its minisculely more generous sister, the ``thong'' panty, continue to rack up sales. ``i thought they would be a flash in the pan, but christian dior and lily of france are doing a very big business in them,'' she said
stock prices showed some moderate gains today in a subdued response to news of a narrowing trade deficit
five minutes before the close, the dow jones average of 30 industrials was up 14.26 at 1,975.80
the stock market put together a moderate gain today in a muted response to news of a smaller u.s. trade deficit
before the market opened the commerce department reported that the trade deficit narrowed to $12.20 billion in december from $13.22 billion the month before
the figure came in at the low end of analysts' estimates, and lent support to the growing belief that the international trade situation was improving. american exports set a record for the second straight month
but analysts said traders in the stock and bond markets didn't see the news as entirely positive
given the strength it showed in u.s. manufacturing, they said, the chances seemed less that the federal reserve might soon relax its credit policy further. interest rates rose and prices declined in the credit markets
another apparent drag on the markets was the labor department's report that the producer price index of finished goods rose 0.4 percent in january, after falling about the same amount in december
four months after the stock market collapse, the government on friday reported a lower trade deficit, rising prices and mounting piles of unsold goods, baffling the markets over whether to expect inflation or recession
the confusion was first reflected in the inflation-sensitive bond market, where prices first soared and then sank in a half hour of wild gyrations. stocks and the dollar rose
interest rates finished the day higher in a setback for individual and corporate borrowers that some economists believe could tip the precariously balanced economy into recession
the commerce department said the merchandise trade deficit shrank to $12.2 billion in december, the lowest figure since january 1987, even though the gap for all of 1987 totaled a record $171.2 billion
exporting manufacturers are continuing to do a booming business, but demand for imports remains healthy as well, the trade report showed
the impression of a strong, potentially inflationary economy was heightened by the labor department's report that wholesale prices rose 0.4 percent in january
the yield on the treasury's benchmark 30-year bond _ an indicator for interest rates throughout the economy _ rose to 8.44 percent from 8.35 percent late thursday as the bond's price sagged
wall street took the reports more favorably than the bond market as the dow jones average of 30 industrials rose 21.72 points to 1,983.26 one hour before the close of new york stock exchange trading
the dollar strengthened about 1.2 percent percent against key currencies, rising to about 131 japanese yen and 1.71 west german marks
contrasting with the signs of economic strength was one sign of weakness: the commerce department said business inventories shot up 0.8 percent in december, the third consecutive large monthly advance
the reports suggested that since the oct. 19 stock plunge, the economy remains balanced on the knife edge between inflation, brought on by the improvement in trade, and recession, brought on by tight credit and sluggish consumer spending
friday's jump in interest rates was interpreted by some economists as evidence that investors are confident about economic growth and concerned about the risks of inflation
in addition to the reports on trade and wholesale prices, the economy showed sparks of life in thursday's report that retail sales rose 0.5 percent in january
we believe that there is enough strength in the manufcturing sector to prevent a recession. and if we get any strength in the consumer side, that's just gravy,'' said douglas schindewolf, associate economist for smith barney, harris upham &amp; co
but other economists said the economy shows fundamental signs of weakness, such as the report that inventories of unsold goods are piling up on shelves
investors are not especially worried about a resurgence of inflation, argued robert brusca, chief fixed-income economist for nikko securities co. international inc
disagreeing with the prevailing interpretation, brusca argued that investors sold bonds friday because they had been expecting a cut in the discount rate by the federal reserve and didn't get it
brusca said the federal reserve made a mistake by not cutting the discount rate, which would have made life easier for borrowers and resuscitated an ailing economy
when the patient has been pulled out of a pool, that's a good time to administer artificial resuscitation, rather than wait till he stops breathing,'' brusca said
the increase in producer prices reported friday was not large and followed three months of decline, brusca said, arguing against the likelihood of zooming inflation
i'm concerned about what the fed has done here; i don't think it's good,'' brusca said
merrill lynch &amp; co. economists believe friday's reports confirm their view that the economy will continue to slog forward through 1988 and that a recession is not likely until 1989, said senior economist bruce steinberg
steinberg said he does not believe a discount rate cut is either imminent or needed
the dow jones average of 30 industrials rose 21.72 to 1,983.26, extending its gain for the week to 72.78 points
advancing issues outnumbered declines by about 5 to 3 on the new york stock exchange, with 934 up, 557 down and 457 unchanged
big board volume totaled 177.19 million shares, against 200.76 million in the previous session. the nyse's composite index gained .87 to 144.86
here are the major business events and economic events scheduled for the coming week (some dates are tentative):

washington's birthday _ stock and commodity markets are closed as are government offices, banks and many businesses
nothing scheduled

washington _ the federal reserve is scheduled to report on the nation's industrial production during january; due at 9:15 a.m. est
washington _ the commerce department is to report on the amount of new housing construction started during january; due at 8:30 a.m. est

washington _ the federal reserve is to report on the percentage of u.s. factory capacity that was in use during january; release time uncertain
wilmington, del. _ hearing on black &amp; decker challenge to delaware's anti-takeover law
nothing scheduled
millionaire industrialist victor posner avoided a prison term for federal income tax evasion, but agreed friday to pay $3 million to help south florida's homeless, pay more than $4 million in back taxes and penalties and give 5,000 hours in community service over five years
the 69-year-old miami beach businessman, whose holdings include controlling interests in royal crown cola and arby's, had little to say after the sentencing hearing, but told reporters:
i've been involved in charity works all my life, and i've given millions and millions to charity.''
u.s. district judge eugene p. spellman cautioned posner in court:
not one dollar of the funds of this project are tax-deductible!''
posner faced up to 40 years in prison after pleading no contest sept. 29 to evading more than $1.2 million in federal taxes by inflating the value of land he donated to a bible college as a tax exemption
a no contest plea is not an admission of guilt, only a statement that the defendant will offer no defense. for sentencing purposes, it is equal to a guilty plea or conviction
aside from paying the $4 million in back taxes, penalties, interest and fines, posner was ordered to pay the cost of his own prosecution
spellman said the homeless project will include dade, broward and palm beach counties and he appointed a committee of civic leaders to determine how the money will be spent
the judge warned that failure to abide by the terms of the agreement could result in jail time for posner
the judge directed that, as part of his community service, posner spend five hours a day for one day each of the next eight weeks at camillus house, a downtown miami mission for the homeless
during the hearing, posner's attorney, edward bennett williams of washington d.c., pleaded for an alternative to jail time
williams said posner had always considered the tax case a civil matter. but the internal revenue service did not see it that way, and started a criminal investigation eight years ago
because it is a unique case, it provides the court with an opportunity under which mr. posner could give of himself and his resources for the benefit of south florida,'' williams said
there are matters crying out for remedy,'' williams told the court. ``it would serve no useful purpose to incarcerate this defendant. i appeal to your mercy and i appeal to your justice.''
assistant u.s. attorney neil cartusciello argued that a jail term was necessary as a deterrent to others
mr. posner lied to the internal revenue service and he corrupted others,'' he said. ``in his statement to the probation officers he makes the same claims and tells the same lies.''
he doesn't show he's remorseful, that he's sorry. the honest taxpayers end up paying a disproportionate burden,'' the prosecutor said
posner entered the plea a month before he was to be retried. his 1986 conviction was set aside because of jury irregularities
he pleaded in september to 10 charges: conspiracy to evade income taxes, four counts of tax evasion and five counts of making false statements in a tax return
posner was indicted in 1982, accused of filing false returns between 1975 and 1979 and evading $1.2 million in taxes by inflating the value of property he donated to miami christian college
miami real estate broker william h. scharrer sr. was charged with aiding and abetting in the tax violations. he was convicted in 1984 and sentenced to 18 months
posner's holdings also include controlling interests in sharon steel and the graniteville textile company. he was named america's highest-paid executive by business week magazine in 1985
the industrialist, who rarely grants public interview, reportedly earned $8.6 million in 1986 and his fortune was estimated at $240 million by forbes magazine in 1984
he has sold off holdings in recent years to pay company debts
his evans products co. and sharon steel filed for reorganization under chapter 11 of u.s. bankruptcy law
lorimar telepictures corp. posted a $19.2 million third-quarter loss friday after setting aside $22 million in reserves for possible future losses by its home-video division
a year ago, lorimar ousted the three top executives of the home video operation, including its founder and president stuart karl, amid allegations of conflict of interest. an internal probe has been under way since then
lorimar's loss for the three months ended dec. 31 narrowed from a loss of $21.7 million a year earlier. revenue for the quarter rose by nearly 30 percent to $255.1 million from $196.8 million
the $22 million reserve is to cover potentially uncollectable accounts receivable and a writedown on the value of inventory because of overstocking some titles
for the nine months, lorimar posted a loss of $82.6 million, which included a $45 million writedown on the value of the final five movies made by the ousted management of the film division. in the first nine months of 1986, the company lost $4.1 million
revenue for the nine months were up 17.3 percent to $616.8 million from $525.7 million
last november, lorimar sued karl charging that he breached his fiduciary duty in running the operation. karl has denied any wrongdoing
separately, lorimar disclosed that it has had to reduce the sale price of of its new york-based advertising agencies _ bozell, jacobs, kenyon &amp; eckhardt inc. and poppe tyson inc. _ by slightly over $10 million to $133 million
but the company said it is proceeding with sale to members of the agencies' management, with the deal expected to close within a week
lorimar will show a pre-tax gain of about $16 million on the deal
black &amp; decker corp. announced friday that a group of commercial banks has arranged $2.2 billion in financing for the company's $2.1 billion hostile takeover attempt for american standard inc
the syndidate is composed of 19 domestic and foreign banks, including chase manhattan bank, which earlier pledged $750 million of its own funds toward the deal, the company said
american standard has vowed to fight black &amp; decker's $65-per-share bid, saying it will consider a restructuring, leveraged buyout or a friendly merger with another company. the new york-based manufacturer of plumbing, heating and air conditioning equipment has urged its shareholders to reject the offer and has adopted a ``poison pill'' plan allowing shareholders to buy back their stock at half market value if the takeover succeeds
black &amp; decker, which currently owns just 100 shares of the company, launched an effort wednesday to oust american standard's board of directors. shareholders will be asked to vote their shares to remove 10 members of the company's board, black &amp; decker said. one of the objectives, the suitor said, was to remove the poison pill plan
the towson, md.-based tool and appliance maker also announced the expiration of a waiting period under the hart-scott-rodino antitrust improvements act of 1976. the law required a 30-day cooling off period to check for possible antitrust violations
the screening process is over and that means there are no antitrust implications,'' said black &amp; decker spokeswoman barbara lucas
mrs. lucas said the agreements with the banks are for permanent financing of the takeover. some of the $2.2 billion loan is for expenses related to the deal, she said
black &amp; decker launched its bid for american standard on jan. 28
gov. richard celeste signed into law friday emergency legislation that enables the state to assess the economic impact of takeover bids by foreign corporations
the law, which takes effect immediately and expires july 1, was prompted by campeau corp.'s billion bid to acquire or merge with federated department stores, inc., celeste said
campeau is headquartered in toronto; federated is based in cincinnati
with the help of this bill, we will use every resource available to investigate the impact of this offer and take whatever action is necessary to prevent the loss of jobs in the cincinnati area,'' celeste said
separately, campeau chairman and chief executive officer robert campeau cautioned that any attempt by federated to enter into agreements with other firms would be met with a ``vigorous legal challenge.''
in a letter to henry kravis of the leveraged-buyout firm of kohlberg, kravis, roberts &amp; co., campeau noted that it has been ``widely reported'' that kkr has expressed interest in federated
campeau said the firm ``cannot enter into such arrangements without our having a full and fair opportunity to compete with any offer you make, including providing us with any information provided to you or any other third parties.''
under ohio's new law, foreign businesses trying to acquire an ohio business are required to disclose financing plans and any intent to sell the target company's assets to pay for the acquisition
companies must make the disclosure to the department of development, which is then authorized to conduct an economic impact review and also can involve other departments, including commerce and taxation
this legislation protects target corporations with a considerable presence in ohio by requiring bidders to explain their financing plans,'' the governor said
celeste said serious questions have arisen about the amount of debt involved in the transaction
john chester, a columbus attorney representing federated, said thursday that enactment of the bill should send a signal to toronto-based campeau that federated has obtained some of the protection it wanted
a companion bill requested by federated effectively has been put on hold. the measure would have expanded ohio's existing anti-takeover law to include certain non-ohio corporations licensed to do business in the state
but lawmakers said there were substantial constitutional questions and other concerns about the bill
campeau's $5.4 billion, $61-per-share offer to merge with federated was made as an alternative to its outstanding $4.2 billion hostile tender offer
federated employs about 16,000 people in ohio, and has a payroll of $237 million annually. graf, livestock and ...</note>
soybean futures prices leaped as much as 10\ cents a bushel friday as speculators sparked a final-hour surge on the chicago board of trade
on other markets, grain futures were mixed; precious metals firmed; energy futures retreated and stock-index futures advanced
the soybean rally was kicked off by one large speculative firm, which began snapping up soybean futures and options contracts late in the session, analysts said
during the first two and half hours of the trading session, it was basically a liquidation market with prices easier following a runup during the week,'' said mickey luth, an analyst in chicago with the investment firm shearson lehman hutton inc
then it started rallying and rallying and ran up to new highs on the day,'' he said
the runup triggered computer-controlled buy stops, ``and up she went,'' said victor lespinasse, a trader for dean witter reynolds inc
the august contract gained 10\ cents a bushel
luth said the buying may have been linked to rising european demand for soybean meal
corn prices retreated slightly on rumors the agriculture department plans to begin auctioning off surplus corn stocks in april, lespinasse said. the program would supposedly be similar to the usda's successful weekly wheat auctions, begun in november, which increase the supply of grain on the open market
wheat futures advanced in line with soybeans. after the close, the usda announced substantial new export business, including new sales of wheat to china, algeria and finland
wheat settled 1\ cents to 3{ cents higher with the contract for delivery in march at $3.32\ a bushel; corn was 1\ cents to 1} cents lower with march at $2.01 a bushel; oats were unchanged to 1 cent higher with march at $1.90{ a bushel; soybeans were 4 cents to 10\ cents higher with march at $6.27{ a bushel
gold and silver futures posted their best gains in more than a week on new york's commodity exchange in apparent defiance of government trade figures released friday
the commerce department reported the u.s. trade deficit had narrowed to $12.2 billion in december compared with $13.2 billion in november. the lower-than-expected number helped strengthen the dollar, which often leads to lower gold prices
instead, gold futures gained more than $5 a troy ounce, perhaps in reaction to the labor department's announcement that wholesale prices rose a brisk 0.4 percent in january, said craig sloane, an analyst in new york for smith barney, harris upham &amp; co
sloane said thursday's government report of a 0.5 percent rise in retail sales in january also may have helped the metals markets, which had been drifting lower on ideas the economy was slipping into a recession
the increase in retail sales ``could suggest the economy is not going into recession and i think that is something the metal markets in general would view favorably,'' sloane said. ``the last thing they want to hear right now is anything having to do with recession.''
gold settled $5.30 to $7.50 higher with the april at $448.70 a troy ounce; silver was 7.5 cents to 8.3 cents higher with march at $6.39 a troy ounce
energy futures slumped on the new york mercantile exchange in mostly technical trading, analysts said
merrill lynch analyst john hill said the charts continued to look weak, and he predicted further declines on tuesday, when trading resumes after the holiday weekend
hill also said many traders were selling crude-oil contracts for march delivery and buying contracts for later delivery, an indication they expect oil prices to fall in the near term
west texas intermediate crude oil settled 31 cents to 34 cents lower with march at $16.77 a barrel; heating oil was .61 cent to .79 cent lower with march at 46.60 cents a gallon; unleaded gasoline was .37 cent to .76 cent lower, with march at 46.28 cents a gallon
livestock and meat futures ended mostly lower on the chicago mercantile exchange on expectations of a surge in slaughters
many traders expect livestock marketings to increase next week as milder weather moves into the plains and midwest, said roger norem, an analyst for agri-visor services inc. in bloomington, ill
live cattle settled .18 cent lower to .10 cent higher with february at 71.65 cents a pound; feeder cattle were .60 cent lower to .15 cent higher with march at 83.30 cents a pound; hogs were .43 cent lower to .20 cent higher with february at 47.25 cents a pound; frozen pork bellies were .50 cent to .78 cent lower with february at 55.80 cents a pound
stock-index futures advanced on the chicago mercantile exchange, where the contract for march delivery of the standard &amp; poor's 500 index settled 1.55 points higher at 258.80. the underlying spot index finished 1.67 points higher at 257.63
here, at a glance, are developments in the economic picture friday:
the u.s. trade deficit narrowed to $12.2 billion in december, down from $13.2 billion in november and $17.6 billion in october. but the overall $171.2 billion shortfall for 1987 was the highest ever
exports in december climbed 4.2 percent to a record $24.8 billion, while imports held steady at $37 billion, the same as the month before
analysts credited the devalued dollar, which makes american goods cheaper abroad, for the recent export surge
the steepest increase in food prices in nearly 18 months, partly offset by falling energy costs, pushed wholesale prices in january up 0.4 percent, equivalent to an annual rate of inflation of 4.6 percent
the rise followed three months of declines and was the largest since a 0.4 percent increase in september
business inventories rose by $5.45 billion, or 0.8 percent, in december, following even larger increases of 0.9 percent in november and 1.1 percent in october
the large rise in inventories was led by a 1.5 percent increase in stockpiles held by retailers. inventories held by wholesalers rose 0.6 percent, while manufacturing stockpiles were up 0.4 percent
many economists say the swelling backlog of unsold products could retard growth in the coming months
business sales rose 1.3 percent to a seasonally adjusted $466.57 billion in december following two months of sluggish activity. business sales fell a revised 0.4 percent in november, more than initially reported
the sales increase was paced by a 2.2 percent rise in sales by manufacturers. sales by retailers were up 1.2 percent, while sales at the wholesale level were essentially unchanged
the stock market showed a moderate gain in a muted response to news of a smaller u.s. trade deficit. the dow jones average rose 21.72 to 1,983.26, extending its gain for the week to 72.78 points
the dollar strengthened about 1.2 percent against key currencies, rising to about 131 japanese yen and 1.71 west german marks
oil prices moved lower, pulled down by technical factors and slumping prices in europe, analysts said
on the new york mercantile exchange, contracts for march delivery of west texas intermediate, the benchmark u.s. crude, closed at $16.75 per 42-gallon barrel, down 36 cents from thursday
among refined products, wholesale heating oil contracts fell 0.75 cent to 46.60 cents per gallon, while wholesale unleaded gasoline sold for 46.28 cents per gallon, down 0.37 cent
jaguar cars inc. announced friday a recall of 16,000 1988 jaguar xj6 and vanden plas models in the united states because of possible problems in the front suspension system
jaguar said stress corrosion may cause certain lower-spring pan fixings in the front suspension system to fail. such failures could cause the vehicle's front sspension to settle onto the bump stop on one side of the car, jaguar said
the company said the car would not lose steering or braking, and that no accidents or injuries have been reported from the problem
owners will be told by mail when to make appointments with jaguar dealers to have new fixings installed at no cost, the company said
the stock market gained ground in moderate trading friday, mustering only a subdued response to news of a smaller u.s. trade deficit
the dow jones average of 30 industrials rose 21.72 to 1,983.26, extending its gain for the week to 72.78 points
advancing stocks outnumbered declines by about 5 to 3 among new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 937 up, 556 down and 473 unchanged
big board volume totaled 177.19 million shares, down from 200.76 million in the previous session
before the market opened the commerce department reported that the nation's trade deficit narrowed to $12.20 billion in december from $13.22 billion the month before
the figure came in at the low end of analysts' estimates, and lent support to the growing belief that the international trade situation was improving. american exports set a record for the second straight month
but analysts said traders in the stock and bond markets didn't see the news as purely positive
given the strength it showed in u.s. manufacturing, they said, the chances seemed less that the federal reserve might soon relax its credit policy further. interest rates rose and prices declined in the credit markets
another apparent drag on the markets was the labor department's report that the producer price index of finished goods rose 0.4 percent in january, after falling about the same amount in december
as they had on last month's trade report, stocks registered just about all their gains in the first half hour of trading, and then spent the rest of the session drifting in a narrow range
gainers among the blue chips included international business machines, up } at 112; ford motor, up { at 43]; eastman kodak, up ~ at 42}, and exxon, up \ at 40{
general motors, benefiting from upbeat appraisals of its earnings report early in the week, rose 1{ to 67[
united inns paced the day's percentage gainers, jumping 7] to 26{. the company said it retained an investment banking firm to advise it on potential takeover offers that ``have or might be made.''
mca climbed 5\ to 45. the company said it was notified by donald trump, the real estate developer and financier, that he had acquired a block of mca stock and might increase his stake to as much as 24.9 percent
as measured by wilshire associates' index of more than 5,000 actively traded stocks, the market increased $15.74 billion, or 0.62 percent, in value
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks added .87 to 144.86
nationwide turnover in nyse-listed issues, including trades in those stocks on regional exchanges and in the over-the-counter market, totaled 201.46 million shares
standard &amp; poor's index of 400 industrials rose 2.22 to 296.07, and s&amp;p's 500-stock composite index was up 1.68 at 257.63
the nasdaq composite index for the over-the-counter market gained 2.23 to 353.27. at the american stock exchange, the market value index closed at 277.00, up 2.60
belgian financier andre leysen friday failed to push through a franco-belgian deal to control societe generale de belgique sa, giving rival italian investor carlo de benedetti's bid a major boost
leysen could not get enough backing from a group of mostly belgian investors to ratify an accord with the french holding cie. financiere de suez to restructure belgium's biggest holding concern and keep it anchored in belgium
leysen said he considered his mandate as spokesman for the group as over
because of the failure, the battle for control for societe generale, one of the pillars of the belgian economy, remains open
suez, however, said ``it is continuing discussions with all the belgian shareholders'' wanting to cooperate in gaining control of the company that has a stake in a third of the belgian economy
it said leysen's decision to relinquish his leading role ``absolutely does not call into question the goal sought by the belgian and french partners'' to restructure the 166-year-old company
societe generale has interests in about 1,400 companies worldwide with assets totaling nearly $3 billion
de benedetti did not comment on friday's developments. he wants effective control of societe generale in order to use it as a platform for a pan-european financial holding
he also has offered to continue negotiations with the belgian shareholders but has excluded suez from such negotiations
the italian investor claims to be the biggest shareholder and says he can control, through allies, 38 percent of stock in the company. he is launching a public offer monday for 15 percent more
in the public offer, de benedetti is willing to offer 4,000 francs ($114.30) per share, 150 francs ($4.30) less than friday's closing price on the brussels stock exchange
the price had plunged 14 percent friday from 4,850 francs ($138.60) and brokers blamed it on leysen's failure, which caused many market participants to conclude de benedetti had won the battle for control
the group of mostly belgian investors formed around leysen said it had 28 percent of stocks in the company while suez claimed 15 percent. together with allies leysen said they had a majority of shares
but important groups within the coalition did not support the accord. cobepa, linked to leysen and paribas, a french rival of suez, has an estimated 4 percent of the shares of societe generale and said the plan lacked a clear industrial program
the belgian group uniting beer brewers artois and piedboeuf also failed to agree to the terms
the accord was favored by the current management of societe generale, which has come under sharp attack by de benedetti
friday's developments followed a week of frantic negotiations between the three interested parties and threatened to defeat de benedetti's bid to create a pan-european holding centered around the belgian company. rates</head>
bond prices sagged friday as hopes faded for continued declines in interest rates and concerns grew about inflation
the activity occurred against a backdrop of new government reports that included a smaller-than-expected december trade deficit and a rise in wholesale prices in january
by late afternoon, the treasury's 30-year bond was off ~ point, or $8.75 for every $1,000 in face value. it rose more than $10 shortly after the trade report was released before quickly reversing course
its yield climbed to 8.43 percent from 8.35 percent late thursday
the government reported the u.s. trade imbalance fell to $12.2 billion in december from $13.2 billion in november
the report sent bond prices higher because the deficit was lower than many analysts had expected and indicated the gap could shrink without new declines in the dollar. a falling dollar discourages foreign investors such as the japanese from buying u.s. securities
but the rise was shortlived as bond prices abruptly changed direction
analysts said the reversal occurred because the market's attention shifted from the trade report to a second government report that wholesale prices rose 0.4 percent in january after a 0.4 percent decline in december
paul boltz, chief financial economist for t. rowe price associates, a baltimore-based investment company, said the wholesale price numbers triggered some concerns about inflation, which would erode the value of bonds
at midday, the federal reserve took steps for the second day in a row to arrange securities sales that had the effect of draining reserves from the banking system
some analysts said that signaled the central bank had no intention of further relaxing its credit policy, and that it raised questions about whether it had eased its policy earlier this week as some economists believed it had
the federal funds rate, the closely-watched interest charge on short-term loans between banks, edged up to 6 11-16 percent from 6{ percent late thursday
the rate is often seen as an indication of which way the fed wants short-term rates to go, and when it fell below 6 percent earlier this week, some economists concluded that the fed had relaxed its credit policy
the market had gotten overexuberant on the possibility of further fed easing ... but after the fed drained reserves, the funds rate kicked up. the prospect of fed easing is up in the air,'' said elliott platt, research director for the investment firm donaldson lufkin &amp; jenrette securities inc
late friday afternoon, the fed disclosed its policymakers decided in december to end aggressive efforts to push interest rates lower, believing that the immediate threat from the october stock market collapse had passed
fed policymakers met again tuesday and wednesday but did not disclose any results of their actions
in the secondary market for treasury bonds on friday, prices of short-term governments fell \ point, intermediate maturities dropped | point and 20-year issues fell 1[ points, according to figures provided by the financial information service telerate inc
the movement of a point is equivalent to a change of $10 in the price of a bond with a $1,000 face value
the merrill lynch daily treasury index, which measures price movements on all outstanding treasury issues with maturities of a year or longer, fell 0.52 to 113.32. the shearson lehman daily treasury bond index, which makes a similar measurement, lost 5.47 to 1,185.17
moody's investment grade corporate bond index, which measures price movements on 80 corporate bonds with maturities of five years or longer, fell 1.31 to 282.65
yields on three-month treasury bills rose 12 basis points to 5.75 percent. a basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage point. six-month bills rose 10 basis points to 6.01 percent and one-year bills gained 8 basis points to 6.25 percent. ever</head> activity. picks up 4th graf pvs: both private ...; this stands for am-economy rdp.</note>
the u.s. trade deficit narrowed to $12.2 billion in december as exports hit new records, but the overall $171.2 billion shortfall for 1987 still measured the highest ever, the government said friday
december's merchandise trade deficit was down from $13.2 billion in november and from $17.6 billion in october, and was the smallest figure since a $11.9 billion trade gap in january 1987, the commerce department said
the improvement was driven by a 4.2 percent rise in exports, which reached record levels for the second month in a row
on wall street, the dow jones average of 30 industrials rose 21.72 to 1,983.26, a subdued response to the trade report. bond prices fell as concern grew about inflation, but the dollar soared against most major currencies
both private and government analysts pointed toward the december report as strong evidence of the long-awaited reversal in the nation's trade peformance
the tide has turned,'' declared allen sinai, chief economist for the boston company economic advisers inc
exports in december were $24.8 billion, a new record, up from $23.8 billion in november, the previous record. imports, meanwhile, held steady at $37.0 billion, the same as the month before
we're beginning to see our economy driven by exports and that means economic vitality and increased jobs for americans,'' commerce secretary c. william verity said in a statement
but he said the overall deficit for the year _ up 9.6 percent from $156.2 billion in 1986 _ was ``unacceptable. we have a long way to go until we can be comfortable.''
for all of 1987, americans imported $424.1 billion in goods from other countries while exporting $252.9 billion, compared with 1986 imports of $383.0 billion and exports of $226.8 billion
analysts credited the slide in the dollar _ now worth half of its 1985 value against the japanese yen and key european currencies _ as being the major factor in the recent export surge
a devalued dollar makes american goods cheaper abroad
and, while it will also eventually drive up the price of imports, this effect has not yet been fully realized as many foreign manfacturers take smaller profit margins to hang onto their share of lucrative u.s. markets, analysts said
still other economists suggested that the december figures be looked at cautiously, claiming that the monthly trade figures _ although closely watched by financial markets _ tend to be erratic
for one thing, the figures are not adjusted to remove the impct of seasonal factors, such as increases in imports before christmas and when new-model auto shipments come in early each summer
on a seasonal basis, the trade gap traditionally improves in december and january, economists said
to meet this concern, the commerce department announced on friday that, beginning with the release of april trade figures, it would ``seasonally adjust'' the monthly data
in other economic data on friday:
_the labor department said its producer price index rose 0.4 percent in january, equivalent to an annual rate of inflation of 4.6 percent, with higher costs for a variety of items, including food, offsetting lower energy prices
_the commerce department said business inventories shot up 0.8 percent in december, the third consecutive large monthly advance, pushing unsold stockpiles on shelves and backlots up by $5.45 billion to a seasonally adjusted $701.87 billion
of the december trade figures, u.s. trade representative clayton yeutter said, ``this is a sign that there are better days ahead on the trade front.''
and jay goldinger, senior economist for cantor, fitzgerald, a bond brokerage, predicted that imports would soon begin to fall as sharply as exports have risen, ``as we work off the high level of import inventories.''
we're in the middle of a major change of course. but it's a big ship and you don't turn around a big ship on a dime,'' goldinger said. ``at least we know we're headed home again.''
the united states continued to run its largest deficit with japan last year _ $59.8 billion, up from $58.6 billion in 1986. however, imports from japan in december held at their november level of $4.8 billion
eclipsing western europe for the first time as the second-largest trade deficit were the so-called four ``tigers'' of asia, the newly industrialized nations of taiwan, south korea, hong kong and singapore. together, the trade deficit with those nations in 1987 rose to $37.7 billion, up from $30.8 billion in 1986
the deficit with western europe, meanwhile, narrowed to $30.2 billion from $32.7 billion in the previous year
trade accounts with canada _ this nation's largest single trading partner _ also improved during 1987, to a deficit of $11.7 billion from $13.2 billion in 1986
for the full year, imports of manufactured goods rose 10.7 percent to $325.2 billion while exports of u.s. manufactured goods rose 15.3 percent to $171.5 billion
oil imports were up 19.1 percent, to $44.8 billion, as oil prices rebounded from their 1986 collapse
and in the only major category in which the united states has consistently maintained a surplus, farm product exports were up 9.6 percent, to $28.6 billion
automobile imports from japan totaled $22.2 billion for the year, a 0.9 percent increase. but those from canada were down 13.5 percent to $10.2 billion
from all other countries, auto imports were up a sharp 32.2 percent, to $16.8 billion, reflecting popularity of model lines like the south korean hyundai automobile
gillette co. announced friday the settlement of 16 lawsuits brought against the company and its directors in 1986 by revlon group inc. after it abandoned efforts to gain control of gillette
the settlement, subject to u.s. district court review, requires gillette's non-employee directors to fully evaluate all takeover proposals and stock repurchase agreements for the next three years. the directors must also obtain advice from financial experts on takeover bids and make certain public statements about the offers
in addition, gillette must pay up to $550,000 to cover legal fees as part of the settlement
fourteen class action suits were filed by revlon on behalf of gillette shareholders shortly after the company signed a november 1986 agreement prohibiting any attempts to takeover gillette for 10 years. two other suits were filed in 1987 as amendments to the original suits
revlon made two offers for gillette, the latest a $5.4 billion stock buyout bid in 1986
gillette bought back from revlon about 24 million shares at $29.25 a share following the agreement, said gillette spokesman david fausch
revlon had acquired 14 percent of stock from gillette, which is presently facing a takeover attempt by new york-based coniston partners
new york investor donald trump may seek up to 24.9 percent of mca inc., the parent of universal studios, the entertainment conglomerate said friday
it has been speculated for more than a year that mca would be a takeover target, but until now no suitor has emerged
some analysts have long contended the company's stock was undervalued. but it was believed a hostile takeover would be difficult because mca is ruled with an iron hand by lew wasserman, the last of the old-line movie moguls
wasserman, 74, has been with mca and its forerunner, music corp. of america, since 1936
in a brief announcement, mca said it had been notified by trump that he owns 375,000 of the company's shares and may seek to acquire 24.9 percent
mca has 77.1 million shares outstanding
mca's announcement came after the stock market closed, but the company's stock already had jumped by $5.25 per share to $45 on rumors that a takeover bid was in the offing
like most other companies, mca's shares took a beating in the stock market crash and never fully recovered. in the past year, their highest price was $64.50
trump spokeswoman norma foerderer in new york said she had no comment
mca takeover speculation peaked in mid-1987 when wasserman was hospitalized for a prolonged period after what was to have been routine surgery to remove a polyp from his colon
however, wasserman did return to the helm of the entertainment giant after five weeks, reportedly with his corporate power undiminished
to dissaude suitors, mca last july adopted a ``poison-pill'' permitting stockholders to buy new shares at half price if a hostile bidder acquired more than 20 percent of mca or made an unsolicited tender offer for more than 30 percent
wasserman's control comes more from the respect he commands than from the stock he controls
wasserman owns 6.9 percent of mca's stock and controls another 8.9 percent through a series of trusts, including those of the family of mca founder jules stein
from its beginning as a hollywood talent-booking agency, mca has grown into a powerhouse in producing movies, television programming, records and toys
it operates a successful backlot tour of universal studios here, is building one in florida and has agreed to build one in japan. in all three locations, it would be competing with theme parks by its arch-rival walt disney co
mca also is involved in book publishing, retail and mail-order businesses
in 1987, mca earned $137.9 million, or $1.97 per share, a decrease of 9 percent from a year earlier when it netted $150.9 million, or $1.97 per share
the decline would have been even more dramatic except that the 1986 results already were depressed by a $50 million writeoff to cover bills it was unlikely to collect from independent television stations that had used mca programs
trump, who made his fortune in new york real estate, is building a casino empire with two hotel-gaming houses already in atlantic city, n.j., and a permit pending for a third one
trump also is seeking to gain total control of atlantic city-based resorts international inc. he already owns 90 percent of the company's voting power
in addition, trump in the past has acquired stakes in takeover targets and later sold them for a handsome profit
