12th graf pvs, `fitzgerald has...' ^by elizabeth shogren</note>
an artist's attempt to project the image of mount rushmore onto the side of a chicago building, with the faces of passers-by playing the parts of the four presidents, didn't quite come off as planned friday
but some residents still gave david fitzgerald high marks for attempting his ``urban mount rushmore'' video display, though the images were much less clear than he had planned
it's a good way to start,'' said david harris, 23, of chicago, who was among a handful of people who stopped through the chicago loop on his way home to watch the show
harris and his friend, mark flower, also 23, said that even though they expected the images to be larger and easier to see, it probably was the closest they would get to mount rushmore
fitzgerald said that, overall, he wasn't disappointed by his photographic blending of the faces of passers-by with the figures of george washington, abraham lincoln, thomas jefferson and teddy roosevelt
we thought the glass would reflect better,'' said fitzgerald, 24, a graduate student at the school of the art institute of chicago. ``but the glass is reflecting so much that it's acting like a mirror.''
images of washington and lincoln, about 20 feet wide and 16 feet tall, flashed onto the windows on the side of the kluczinski federal building. but while fitzgerald said they were clearly visible to the people attending a private dinner on the sixth floor of the union league building across the street, they were harder for street-level pedestrians to recognize
fitzgerald's idea was to take snapshots of as many as 40 people walking by the union league building. powerful video equipment was set up to project the images of those photos combined with images of the figures on mount rushmore on the side of the federal building
the federal building is this city's urban mount rushmore and seemed like the obvious place that we should project them,'' said fitzgerald
the project was designed to give urban dwellers the chance to see the historic granite carvings at almost actual size _ a sight usually reserved for tourists who make the trek to the black hills of south dakota
the union league, a civic foundation founded while lincoln was president, decided to sponsor the event as the centerpiece of a private dinner
fitzgerald has brought images of other gigantic historic statues to the city
for the fourth of july in 1986, he used 12 projectors to recreate a lifesize image of the face of the statue of iberty on a wall of the art institute, he said
during a chicago bears game in 1985, fitzgerald projected a mammoth ``bears no. 1'' across the prudential, cna insurance and standard oil buildings
art should be for all the people all the time. i really want to bring my art to the common people,'' fitzgerald said
and along the way, i hope to make a couple of people smile.'' campaign</head> should stand for ams</note>
tennessee sen. albert gore jr., billing himself as ``entirely different'' from his democratic presidential rivals, tangled with rep. richard gephardt and gov. michael dukakis thursday night in a crackling debate that raised the curtain on a three-week campaign for southern support
dukakis and gephardt fired back, with the massachusetts governor telling gore ``you'd better be accurate'' with accusations and the missouri congressman telling him to check ``your own record first'' before making charges of campaign flip-flops
in one tart exchange, gephardt said some of gore's campaign positions were so conservative that he seemed ``more like al haig than al gore.''
shot back gore:
that line sounds more like richard nixon than richard gephardt.''
five of the six remaining democratic presidential contenders participated in the two-hour debate on the southern methodist university campus. with the iowa caucuses and new hampshire primary concluded, the debate marked the opening event in the run-up to super tuesday, the march 8 round of primaries and caucuses _ primarily in southern and border states _ in which nearly a third of the democratic national convention delegates will be picked
bruce babbitt withdrew from the race earlier thursday, and illinois sen. paul simon skipped the debate to campaign elsewhere
dukakis, winner of last tuesday's new hampshire primary, took a dig at gephardt, first-place finisher in the iowa caucuses
i think we were all a little surprised when dick last saturday stood up and said he was proud to vote for the reagan tax bill'' after telling iowans that he did so only as a last resort, he said
the debate resumed in the back room after the television cameras were turned off
said gore: ``i think it's fair to lay out the record and lay it on the line.''
said gephardt: ``he probably thinks i'm ahead in the south and he's got to jump-start his campaign to have a chance.''
much of the on-stage fireworks were initiated by gore in the two-hour confrontation that contained some of the most pointed language of the democratic race for the white house
i'm not going to sit here and listen to that,'' dukakis said after the tennessee senator accused him of a willingness to accept a soviet client state in nicaragua. ``if you're going to be president of the united states you better be accurate.''
gephardt sat silently when gore accused him of a long list of shifts in positions on critical campaign issues, from reaganomics to abortion, and said a president has to stand his ground against pressure, whether from soviet leader mikhail gorbachev or domestic groups
but a few moments later, the missouri congressman acidly replied that he had listened to gore's ``lecture on consistency,'' adding, ``maybe you ought to start looking at your own record first.''
at another point, gephardt slapped down gore's decision to skip the iowa caucus and minimize his efforts in new hampshire's primary. ``i don't think people vote for political strategies,'' said the missouri congressman
there were moments of humor during the two hours, such as when gore declared that dukakis was a good governor, ``and i think you ought to keep right on being governor.''
but there was plenty of political thrust and parry, as well
gary hart said he didn't question gephardt's motives in supporting a tough trade bill, but added, ``we all know the road to hell is paved with ... good intentions.''
i think if dick's bill ever went into effect it would be a catastrophe, and the first casualty in any trade war would be american workers and farmers.''
jesse jackson, like gore looking to appeal to a natural constituency, drew one of the loudest rounds of applause when he said the united states is making products that consumers don't want to buy
how many of you own an mx missile? not one,'' he said in a now-familiar refrain
gore sought to set himself apart as he noted that democrats have lost four of the last five presidential elections
i'm saying something in this campaign that is entirely different from what these other candidates are saying. this is the time for a democratic nominee who is in support not only of economic growth and social justice but also a strong america.''
gore also was the aggressor from the opening bell
i listen to mike (dukakis) talk and it sounds a litle different from what he said in iowa a week ago ... when he implied it would be all right to have a soviet client state in central america,'' gore said. ``if the president of the united states said that in office it could have catastrophic consequences.''
dukakis shot back: ``i never ever said that _ please get your facts straight.''
as for gephardt, gore said the missouri congressman's tough trade bill would deal with only a small portion of the nation's trade problem
he said the leading cause of the nation's trade deficit was reaganomics ``which gephardt supported when it was put in.'' with gephardt's trade bill, he said, ``we will never be able to get the kind of trade surpluses in the next decade that we need.''
dukakis also addressed the trade issue, saying, ``we've got to make made in america the international symbol for quality and value and durability once again.''
the debate was provided to public broadcasting stations and moderated by roger mudd
the republican candidates were scheduled to meet in a similar debate friday night, but sen. bob dole and former television evangelist pat robertson announced thursday afternoon that they would not participate. there was no word from the two remaining gop contenders, vice president george bush and rep. jack kemp
a passenger bus trying to pass on a curve in the eastern state of veracruz on thursday slammed into a gasoline truck, killing 17 people and injuring 14 others, authorities said
the impact caused the gasoline truck to explode near tierra blanca, 22 miles west of the port of veracruz on the gulf of mexico
the accident occurred at 6:32 a.m
luis edmundo perez garcia, a spokesman for the mexican red cross, said it appeared the accident happened when the driver of the bus tried to pass another vehicle on a curve
he said most of the bus passengers were laborers traveling to their jobs on an oil exploration rig in the town of cotlaxta. say</head>
president reagan's modest proposals for education and social spending next year drew a relatively warm reception on capitol hill, but two committee chairmen said his budget requests still aren't high enough
rep. augustus hawkins, chairman of the house education and labor committee, said the extra spending authority sought for education programs will not enable more children to participate in head start or chapter 1, the federal tutoring program for academically disadvantaged children
we intend to press for funding over and above the president's request'' to meet and surpass inflation, hawkins, d-calif., said in a statement following the unveiling thursday of reagan's $1.1 trillion fiscal 1989 spending blueprint
sen. edward kennedy, chairman of the senate labor and human resources committee, said ``crucial domestic programs'' are shortchanged in the reagan budget despite its education increases
i am concerned that overall spending for social programs will not even keep up with inflation,'' said kennedy, d-mass
reagan just last year asked for cuts of nearly $5 billion in the education budget. this year he is seeking an 8 percent or $1.5 billion increase for a total of $20.3 billion in expected spending during fiscal 1989
about a third of the money would be added to the pell grant program for needy college and trade school students. grants would rise from $2,200 to $2,300 a year for total pell grant spending of nearly $5 billion
another third would be spent on chapter 1, bringing that spending total to nearly $4.4 billion. the program serves 5.6 million students at academic risk
the rest would fund modest expansions of a number of programs, including magnet schools, drug education, adult literacy and handicapped education. the administration also is proposing a college savings bond program under which interest on bonds used for tuition would be tax-free
the administration requested modest increases in several social programs, including rental vouchers for low-income families, drug abuse prevention, foster care and adoption assistance, and prenatal care for pregnant women
but some programs for the needy would suffer cuts under the proposal, including a $400 million, 25 percent drop in help for the poor to pay heating and cooling bills. head start would be frozen at $1.2 billion, and other social programs would be left with no increases or small ones lagging behind inflation
the areas still targeted for critical cuts, such as emergency food and shelter for the homeless, child abuse, discretionary grants and schooling for migrants, show that the administration still wants to save money at the expense of the most vulnerable americans,'' said marian wright edelman, president of the children's defense fund
the national council on senior citizens condemned the cuts in heating and cooling bill subsidies and in housing programs for low-income elderly and rural residents. they constitute ``a grim reminder that the reagan administration does not now, nor has it ever had, compassion for the neediest citizens in our society,'' the group said
many reacted with amusement and skepticism to the administration's reversal on education, pointing out that the only other time the president asked for an education budget increase was in 1984
we shouldn't be surprised. this is an election year,'' said mary hatwood futrell, president of the national education association. ``in election years, the reagan administration `supports' education.''
education secretary william bennett said the turnaround came because ``the president has decided to make education a priority'' and because the administration realized after several rebuffs that it was a waste of time to present cuts to congress
he added: ``it's not politically dumb, that's for certain.''
the reagan administration, concerned about threats to u.s rights to overseas military bases, is proposing a $150 million increase in aid to three strategic allies _ greece, turkey and portugal
the administration also is seeking a slight increase in relief funds, enough to settle 68,500 refugees in the united states next year. but officials expressed concern that it won't be enough to cope with an expected new influx of vietnamese boat people and others
deputy secretary of state john c. whitehead outlined thursday what he termed a ``bare bones'' request for $18.1 billion in spending authority for foreign aid and state department operations in the fiscal year starting next oct. 1
the total includes $14.3 billion in overseas economic and military aid commitments and $3.8 billion for the state department, the u.s. information agency and other foreign affairs operations, including embassies and consulates
the figures would not represent actual outlays, because some of the money will be spent on projects extending over several years. the outlay figure for foreign aid is expected to be several billion dollars less than the $14.3 billion request
the budget had few surprises, but some of the requests reflected new u.s. concerns about conditions abroad
the plan calls for a combined commitment of $1.12 billion in assistance to turkey, greece and portugal, an increase of $150 million over the current allocation
all three countries provide bases for u.s. forces, and have said their willingness to play host depends on how well washington assists them
portugal and the united states are reviewing an agreement that permits american use of lajes air base in the azores through 1991. that country would get a $163 million commitment next year, compared with $117 million this year
turkey would get $623.5 million, up from $525.3 million, and greece would get $351.1 million, compared with $344.1 million this year
negotiations with greece for renewal of base rights that expire next year are about to begin. turkey and the united states recently signed a base rights agreement, but the turkish government has frozen ratification proceedings partly to protest u.s. aid levels
congress traditionally has ignored state department aid requests for greece and turkey and recalculated assistance to comply with an unwritten practice of giving greece $7 for every $10 given to its bigger and poorer rival, turkey
reagan's budget plan calls for $340 million in refugee assistance to allow 68,500 displaced people to enter the united states. that is about the same number resettled in the current year
it is not as large an increase as we need, in view of our estimates of refugee flows,'' whitehead said, adding that there will be more vietnamese boat people and an higher level of soviet jews and armenians
we're not really sure just where the money will come from to cope with the refugees that will be coming out,'' whitehead said
as usual, israel and egypt would be the major beneficiaries of u.s. foreign aid next year, with combined commitments of $5.3 billion in economic and military assistance
the more than 40 aid recipients in sub-saharan africa, the world's poorest region, would share $733 million in economic assistance commitments
military aid to eight latin-american nations that were cut out of the 1988 program would be reinstated. latin america as a whole would get $90 million more in projected economic assistance and $55 million more in military aid than current levels
the administration proposed to eliminate aid to ireland, which received $35 million in commitments this year. whitehead said the decision was based on a perception that the united states ``does not receive a real return'' on its investment there
a woman who poured gasoline into her washing machine to remove oil from dirty clothes was burned thursday when the dryer ignited the fumes, a fire department spokesman said
the unidentified woman had added about a gallon of gasoline to the soap and water, said the spokesman, russell brown
she was treated at a hospital for second- and third-degree burns on her arms and face brown and was released, fire officials said
firefighters found the woman's frightened young son hiding under a table, said brown. the child was unhurt
the fire quickly extinguished itself and the house sustained little damage except to the washing machine and windows blown out by the explosion, said brown
anthony m. kennedy is quickly getting down to cases after taking his place as the newest member of the supreme court with a pledge to uphold a constitution that he said makes the united states unique
the constitution of the united states is the single idea, the single fact, the single reality, the single moral principle that sets the united states apart from other nations, now and throughout history,'' kennedy said during a white house swearing-in ceremony. ``i shall honor that constitution.''
kennedy, 51, on thursday became the 104th supreme court justice in u.s. history, restoring the court to full strength for the first time in eight months and inheriting a pivotal vote on key issues
today he meets in a private conference with the other eight justices to discuss pending cases and prepare for the court's return monday from a four-week recess
kennedy, who has been reading legal briefs in preparation for his new duties, appeared relaxed as he posed for cameras outside the court building
i've been working. i'm ready for monday,'' he said
one of the first cases in which kennedy will hear arguments next week focuses on whether private clubs may exclude women and racial minorities as members
the case has attracted considerable attention and kennedy's participation will be watched closely. he was criticized during his senate confirmation hearings for his past membership in such exclusive clubs
kennedy took part in two oath-taking ceremonies thursday
at the first in the ornate courtroom where the justices meet to hear arguments, he said, ``i do solemnly swear that i will administer justice without respect to persons and do equal right to the poor and to the rich.''
he then took his seat at one end of the high court bench reserved for the supreme court's newest member
later, kennedy went to the white house to a take a second oath of office in the presence of president reagan
justice kennedy has shown a consistency and a courageous dedication to preserving ours as a government of laws, and that's why i nominated him,'' the president said
he won the respect of his colleagues and of the entire legal community,'' reagan said. ``lawyers and judges of all persuasions characterize him as fair, open-minded and scholarly.''
kennedy gave a thumbs-up salute with both hands after the audience in the east room of the white house applauded him
kennedy was reagan's third choice to succeed justice lewis. f. powell, who retired june 26
reagan's first choice, robert h. bork, was rejected in a bitter senate battle and the next appointee, douglas h. ginsburg, withdrew after admitting he had smoked marijuana occasionally while a law professor
reagan did not attend the courtroom swearing-in ceremony. also absent were justice thurgood marshall, who was attending a meeting in hawaii, and the three former court members still living: powell, warren e. burger and arthur goldberg
chief justice william h. rehnquist welcomed kennedy by wishing him ``a long and happy career in our common calling.''
unanimously confirmed by the senate, kennedy is viewed as a moderate conservative with an open-minded approach to issues involving civil rights and individual liberties
but little is known about his specific views on abortion regulation, affirmative action, church-state relations or the other politically sensitive issues on which the high court is closely divided
he is the third reagan appointee to join the court, following justices sandra day o'connor and antonin scalia
reagan also promoted rehnquist to chief justice when burger retired in 1986
secretary of state george shultz will be in a hurry to pack for the middle east after two days of talks in moscow next week, but he will go out of his way to stop in brussels to brief the nato alliance
then he'll jump aboard his air force jet and rush home having about 24 hours to shift gears, pack fresh laundry and head for the middle east to push a plan for arab-israeli negotiations that neither side is excited about
shultz will pause patiently at nato headquarters on tuesday to give the west europeans a blow-by-blow account of his talks with general secretary mikhail gorbachev and foreign minister eduard shevardnadze
he considers these briefings critical to the cohesion of the west european alliance. it's also shultz' way of making sure moscow knows that the united states is on guard against any attempt to divide the allies
the north atlantic treaty organization will get a bigger and more publicized boost on march 2
president reagan will hold a summit meeting with the 15 nato west european and canadian leaders. the aim is to reinforce the idea that the trans-atlantic alliance formed after world war ii remains the centerpiece of u.s. foreign policy
hundreds of reporters, photographers and television cameras will make sure the point is not lost on american and west european audiences
and yet, high-powered diplomacy and public relations aside, maintaining american unity with western europe in a nuclear-nervous era is not always easy
the dutch and the belgians did not want u.s. intermediate-range nuclear weapons on their soil. the danes opposed having the rockets anywhere in western europe. norway and spain are self-declared nuclear-free zones. france, with its own nuclear force, does not take part in various nato deliberations
west germany in 1979 readily accepted the pershing 2 and cruise missiles that now will be withdrawn over three years. but significant segments of the west german electorate and political spectrum wanted the united states to move on to negotiations to cut back battlefield nuclear weapons
nato decided in 1983 to scrap 1,400 of the oldest nuclear arms in western europe. but many of the american weapons that remain and are below the 315-mile intermediate range will be replaced with newer ones
no alliance allows its forces to defend itself ... with weapons from yesteryear,'' assistant secretary of state rozanne ridgway said wednesday. ``modernization is an ongoing process. we are not prepared to defend europe with weapons from the 1890s.''
large numbers of the new arms would be deployed in west germany
she said the west german government supported the program and was not pushing for negotiations to reduce the current tactical arsenals
there is no move for the removal of the tactical nuclear weapons from europe,'' the u.s. official said
actually, the west germans would have preferred giving top priority to negotiating a reduction in tactical nuclear weapons now that the united states and the soviet union have signed a treaty to scrap 2,700 intermediate-range rockets
but shultz and the 15 western foreign ministers resolved at a nato meeting last year in reykjavik, iceland, to place three other items on the top of the agenda: a strategic nuclear weapons cutback, a ban on chemical weapons and eliminating the warsaw pact's edge in ground forces
now that the west germans have backed off, the reagan administration can concentrate on still another problem: the future of u.s. bases in western europe
while prime minister andreas papandreou has dropped all discussion of pulling greece out of nato, he has not withdrawn his threats to close u.s. military bases on greek soil. portuguese prime minister anibal cavaco silva has threatened to scrap a treaty that allows american use of a base in the azores islands. and the united states is still looking for a home for the 72 f16 fighter-bombers spain is ordering out of the torrejon base near madrid
barry schweid is head of the ap's state department staff
gop presidential hopefuls sen. bob dole and pat robertson said they won't participate in a debate here tonight. their campaigns charged the event would be packed with supporters of vice president george bush
the withdrawals leave only bush and new york rep. jack kemp scheduled to attend. bush was saying thursday that he still planned to participate
we had one of those (bush) pep rallies in houston. i don't see why we have to have two of them in one candidate's home state,'' dole told reporters after a rally in the rotunda of the georgia capitol
richie martin, robertson's state campaign director, said he also thought the event was ``stacked for bush.''
dole complained that organizers of the debate at southern methodist university _ sponsored by the dallas morning news, kera-tv and texas monthly magazine _ had given his campaign only 60 of 2,600 tickets for the debate audience
but burl osborne, president and editor of the dallas morning news, said all the campaigns received 60 tickets each
it is preposterous to try to blame their decision to withdraw on the morning news as dole's representatives have tried to do,'' osborne said in a statement
he complains that he received only 60 tickets. that is the same number of tickets allotted to each candidate _ no more, no less,'' the statement said
osborne said 304 tickets went to smu for distribution on campus
debate organizers received on-again, off-again reports that dole would withdraw and that dole was trying to persuade robertson to pull out too, osborne said
we hope that sen. dole and mr. robertson do not write off texas and merely go away. we will have chairs for them at the debate and we hope they use them,'' he said
the democratic presidential candidates, except for sen. paul simon, debated thursday night under the sponsorship of the same organizations
restraint is the note struck by president reagan's 1989 budget proposal, but the administration still found room in the $1.1 trillion spending plan for new projects and hefty increases in old programs
much of the budget, the last of reagan's presidency, has been pre-ordained by a deficit-cutting deal he cut with congress in negotiations spurred by the october stock market crash
it offers few new ways to spend money and retreats from the administration's favorite use of tax dollars: the military. the pentagon would get only a $9 billion boost to $294 billion. it's the smallest ever proposed by reagan and doesn't even keep up with inflation
however there were some winners, including the agency that regulates the stock market. the securities and exchange commission would get a 19 percent budget increase and 153 new employees
science and space programs are among the biggest beneficiaries. while domestic programs overall will increase by only 2 percent, spending on science will increase 20 percent to $13.1 billion
leading the list is a huge new atomic research facility to study the building blocks of matter. the energy department would get $363 million next year to start construction of the superconducting super collider at a site yet to be chosen
national aeronautics and space administration administrator james fletcher says the president's budget establishes, for the first time, the goal of putting astronauts on other planets. it provides start-up money for the pathfinder project, a research program designed to put an american astronaut on mars early in the next century
it also earmarks nearly $1 billion for a permanent manned space station to orbit the earth by the mid-1990s and more than $1 billion in added funds to help get the space shuttle off the ground
the budget devotes $1.3 billion to research into preventing and treating acquired immune deficiency syndrome, a 38 percent boost
another new element in the reagan budget is its treatment of education. last year the president proposed a $5 billion cut. this year he calls for a $1.5 billion increase to $20.3 billion
and, the president proposes a new program to help low- and middle-income parents save for their children's education. purchasers of u.s. savings bonds wouldn't have to pay taxes on the interest if they're cashed to pay for college tuition
on the revenue side of the budget, reagan reprises many of his ``privatization'' proposals of the past: sale of government loans; sale of amtrak, the government-owned passenger rail service; and sale of military housing. one new proposal is a private plan to mediate disputes that now choke the u.s. tax court
among other highlights of the budget, released thursday, were:
_$3.9 billion, a 13 percent boost, for drug law enforcement and treatment
_$2.5 billion over five years to fight acid rain
_$1.6 billion, a 44 percent increase, to improve the air traffic control system
_nearly $1 billion for the new worker readjustment program (wrap)
wrap will provide counseling, job search assistance, education and training aimed at helping displaced workers move into new careers. it replaces two other federal programs: one which provides unemployment benefits after unemployment insurance runs out and a second that pays states to help dislocated workers
the federal government has until the end of today to appeal a court decision that paves the way for a merger between two of the nation's largest manufacturers of glass containers
on thursday, u.s. district judge joyce hens green rejected the federal trade commission's request for a preliminary injunction to block the merger between toledo, ohio-based owens-illinois inc. and brockway inc. of jacksonville, fla., ruling that the ftc had not proven the deal would hurt competition
the ftc had sought to stop the merger while it conducts administrative proceedings on its complaint that the combination of the nation's second- and third-largest glass-container makers threatened to violate antitrust laws by reducing competition
but the judge rejected the agency's claims, saying: ``the ftc has not shown the possibility of harm to competition that would occur between the denial of the preliminary injunction and final adjudication.''
green accepted the argument advanced by the two manufacturers that competition from the plastics and metal-packaging industry will keep down prices
the trend in packaging is definitely toward a greater variety of container alternatives rather than fewer,'' the judge said. ``counterbalancing the potential for direct impact on glass prices through price discrimination, the other relevant effect on price and supply would be efficiencies to be gained from the merger.''
last month, the judge concluded four days of hearings on the ftc's motion to block the merger. she had issued a temporary restraining order stopping the deal, but it expires today
last september, owens-illinois proposed to buy brockway for $750 million, or $60 per share
the merger would make the combined company the largest manufacturer in the industry. the nation's top manufacturer is anchor glass container corp., which controls 23.7 percent of the market
owens-illinois has a 22.7 percent share of the market, while brockway controls 15 percent of sales
the ftc has said the merger might violate federal antitrust laws by substantially reducing competition in the glass container industry and creating conditions for price discrimination
but attorneys for owens-illinois said the purpose of the merger is to achieve cost savings and efficiencies that will enable the combined companies to vigorously compete against the producers of plastics, metal and other types of packaging materials
fbi officials will report publicly to senators next week on the conduct of agents who spied on and infiltrated an organization opposed to president reagan's policies in central america
the senate intelligence committee asked for an internal probe after publicly released documents showed the bureau conducted a broad investigation of the committee in solidarity with the people of el salvador
the group, known as cispes, contends that the fbi's motives were political and that it was targeted because it opposes reagan's policies. cispes pointed out the march 1983-june 1985 investigation was closed down without any charges filed
fbi director william s. sessions was asked by the committee in closed session feb. 2 to conduct an internal probe of the bureau operation. although top fbi officials will present their interim findings tuesday, sessions will not appear until a later session, the committee said
committee chairman david boren, d-okla. and vice chairman william cohen, r-maine, said in a joint statement that ``while we will not draw any conclusions prematurely,'' they viewed ``violations of the civil rights of individual americans as an extremely serious matter.''
the hearing also will focus on the fbi's justification for conducting the investigation under broad guidelines that are supposed to be used when acts of international terrorism are carried out or planned
use of those guidelines gave the fbi more leeway to investigate cispes; the bureau has other guidelines for conducting domestic investigations which would have placed far more restrictions on agents' activities
the fbi has said it conducted a legitimate investigation into allegations that certain leaders and key members of cispes were covertly giving money and materials to a foreign terrorist organization. the fbi identified the group as the fmln, which is fighting the u.s.-backed government of el salvador
thursday, the fbi gave the committee more than 3,000 pages of still-classified documents on the investigation
another 2,000 documents have been released under the freedom of information act, and they show the fbi was concerned that some of its field offices were investigating protected political acts
representing the fbi tuesday will be executive assistant director oliver b. revell; bill gavin, assistant director in charge of the inspection division; bob ricks, deputy assistant director, criminal investigation division; and steve pomerantz, chief of the terrorism section of the criminal investigative division
the effectiveness of the national park service is threatened by political interference, a problem that is getting worse and can only be solved by making the agency independent, according to the nation's principal park advocacy organization
the popularity of the national parks inspires political appointees to curb the national park service's independence and limit its clout,'' said the national parks and conservation association in a set of recommendations released thursday
there is an urgent need to make the national park service an independent agency, responsible directly to the congress and the president'' because of ``increasing politicization,'' the association said
the recommendations ranged over a wide field, calling for, among other things, establishment of 75 new park units in the 340-unit system and expansion of 200 existing units
the report also urged the service to end the physical and administrative isolation of researchers; to install a systematic, understandable recruitment and hiring procedure; and to provide the chance for employees to move back and forth between general positions like ranger and specialist jobs like historian
conservationists have continually criticized the three interior secretaries of the reagan administration for their tight control over the service and their reluctance to seek funds for land acquisition. but paul pritchard, president of the association, said at the news conference introducing the report: ``it's not just this administration. the process doesn't work.''
defenders of the present system say the cabinet-rank interior secretary carries clout for the service in the white house. the association says it doesn't work that way:
more often, the service has taken its concern to the public and the congress, either publicly or privately, to overcome obstacles placed before it by political appointees of the department.''
if independent, ``the service would still have to compete against all other federal agencies for funding, (but) it would be able to compete without the filters and constraints of interior secretaries, who historically have reduced national park service funding requests to fit their own priorities.''
the service was founded in 1916 in the interior department to take care of the parks, the first of which was established in 1872. the service now has 340 national parks, monuments, battlefields, recreation areas, seashores and other units
many were added in the 1960s and 1970s by a congress delighted to discover a new political currency that won favor with constituents. only four units have been added under the reagan administration
all directors have been professional park managers with one exception: ron walker, a former campaign aide for president nixon. the current director, william penn mott, began his career with the service in the 1930s and served as state parks director in california under then-gov. ronald reagan before being appointed to his current job by interior secretary donald p. hodel
i don't think he's free to advocate,'' said rep. bruce vento, d-minn., chairman of the parks subcommittee of the house interior committee, at the news conference
vento said he was introducing a bill to transfer all the secretary's legal responsibilities for the parks to the director and to make the directorship a five-year presidential appointment. the director would have to be a professional parks manager confirmed by the senate and subject to removal only for cause. the bill also would establish a three-member board to advise congress on the parks
complaints about political direction are common in the government, but until recently have been rare in the park service. interior secretaries have tended to keep the directors they inherit, but there have been reports that some have not been above making it clear they'd like to see an early retirement
current employees say they are under tighter political rein than ever
vento's bill would not actually take the service out of the interior department, but he said it would accomplish the objectives the association seeks and ``be more acceptable by my colleagues.''
he said the association report ``sets forth a damning case against the politicization of one of the finest professional organizations in government.''
mott, said spokesman george berklacy, ``does not support the removal of the service from interior. he does not believe there is anything advantageous to that. he feels very strongly that the director of the national park service should be a professional park manager. a five-year presidential appointment is ok with him.''
the defense department issued some wordy marching orders this week for reporters preparing stories on its $299.5 billion budget request for next year
the aim was to prevent publication of budget details until noon thursday
in official washington, copies of complicated documents are routinely made available to journalists in advance of publication to give them time to absorb the complexities and write informed stories
the agency that issues the document sets the day and hour when the information can be released. in journalistic parlance, that's called an embargo
but the pentagon's budget embargo warning was more emphatic _ and a lot wordier _ than most
its budget embargo was to be a ``total embargo,'' no ifs, ands or buts
until release, none of this material may be paraphrased, hinted at or alluded to in any way,'' the pentagon declared
this material must not be discussed with or provided to others who have not accepted the package on an embargoed basis.''
the pentagon also laid out the rules under which it would discuss the contents of the budget
in advance of release, no telephone inquiries on this material will be accepted by defense department personnel,'' the department said. ``questions from news media correspondents must be asked in person and the requester must acknowledge acceptance of this embargo.''
just to make sure the message got across, the pentagon directive _ stamped top and bottom with the words _ hold for release _ added the following:
there is a total embargo on this budget, as stated above, which includes any and all references to any material in the budget or the budget appendix.''
two rival groups that sponsor chili cook-offs have removed a simmering dispute from the back burner and taken it into the courtroom
the chili appreciation society international inc. has been judging the fiery merits of this southwestern specialty since 1967. five years ago, an unincorporated spinoff group took the same name and started its own cookoff
both groups hold an annual championship cookoff each november near the west texas ghost town of terlingua
the older group has mounted a court challenge seeking to force the newer one to change its name. u.s. district judge lucius bunton said he would decide within 20 days which group will get to keep the chili appreciation society international name
frank x. tolbert, now deceased, helped organize the first cookoff in 1967 to publicize this ghost town
one of tolbert's early partners, ray king, testified wednesday that tolbert agreed in 1980 to incorporate the group, but later backed out because ``he didn't care much for rules and organization. he liked it like it started out.''
king and others incorporated the group, and tolbert accepted the organization's honorary title of ``supreme pepper.''
but in 1983, tolbert broke from the society and started a rival cookoff across the road from the original site at the vacant chisos saloon
the older, larger group has since moved its cookoff eight miles down the road to villa de la mina, where 2,500 participated last year
bunton likened the argument to the child-custody dispute king solomon resolved by ordering the baby cut in half
that's exactly what's happened to terlingua,'' bunton said. ``the baby is split. terlingua doesn't need two cookoffs.''
reagan administration plans to overhaul the u.s. sugar support system and drastically cut rural housing and telephone programs are headed for the same chilly reception that congress gave them in past years, farm-state democrats say
they were dead on arrival and will remain dead on arrival,'' rep. leon panetta, d-calif., said after president reagan submitted his proposed fiscal 1989 farm budget on thursday
panetta, a member of the house agriculture committee, characterized reagan's spending plan as ``a no-news budget'' and ``a rehash of old proposals.''
in any case, he said, legislators are in no mood to revamp farm programs so soon after approving a full-scale overhaul in the 1985 farm law
food programs, including food stamps and school lunches, remained largely untouched under reagan's proposed budget. there were no changes in most farm commodity programs except for the sugar program, which includes protective import quotas and price supports
the agriculture department wants to reduce the sugar price support from 18 cents a pound to 12 cents to make domestic sugar more competitive with imports. it contends that high supports artificially stimulate domestic production and forces the united states to impose tighter quotas on imports
most of the major decisions embodied in the proposed budget resulted from a summit agreement between congress and the white house on $76 billion in deficit-reducing savings over two years
accordingly, the administration proposed to cut overall farm spending by 5 percent, but dropped previous proposals for new user fees, changes in forest service payments to states, alterations in food assistance programs and turning the federal crop insurance program over to private enterprise
the 5 percent cut included a proposed reduction in farmers home administration rural housing programs from more than $3.3 billion this year to less than $1.4 billion in fiscal 1989, which starts oct. 1
also, 70 percent of rural electrification administration loans to rural telephone companies and cooperatives would be transformed into guaranteed loans from private lenders at an estimated government savings of $478 million
but congress has tossed these same proposals in the wastebasket in the past, and seems likely to do the same this year
this is not the leadership required to address the need for economic recovery in the thousands of rural communities that have been bypassed by the economic recovery,'' said sen. patrick j. leahy, d-vt., the chairman of the senate agriculture committee
said rep. glenn english, d-okla., a member of the house agriculture committee: ``this is not a budget that attempts to deal with real numbers. it is a philosophical budget, an attempt to use the budget in obtaining the reagan administration's philosophical goals.''
we recognize the need for budget discipline,'' said rep. e ``kika'' de la garza, d-texas, chairman of the house panel. but he said congress ``would remind the administration and the public that over recent years, agriculture has taken more than its fair share of budget cuts.''
according to the house budget committee, agriculture spending after inflation increased 109.8 percent from fiscal 1981 until fiscal 1987. the increase was caused largely by huge subsidy programs under the 1985 law that were intended to spur exports and revitalize the depressed farm economy
net outlays for farm payments by the agriculture department's commodity credit corp. peaked in 1986 at $25.8 billion. they have been falling since then to $17.7 billion currently, and are projected at $17.1 billion next year
reagan's budget proposed no new types of price-support payments, although some lawmakers have begun to push for new subsidies for soybeans and possibly other crops. states</head>
u.s. officials have drawn up a list of suspects in their search for a ``mr. x'' inside the government who they believe helped israel direct convicted spy jonathan jay pollard to critical secret documents, the washington post reported today
the post reported that justice department officials believe israel almost certainly had another espionage agent spying against the united states in addition to pollard, who has been sentenced to life in prison
however, no evidence has been developed yet that points to the specific identity of this second person, who has been dubbed ``mr. x,'' the post said, citing unidentified sources for its information
as we have indicated previously, there are unanswered questions in the case and the investigation continues,'' justice department spokesman terry eastland said
an israeli embassy spokesman, yossi gal, said the pollard case was an aberration and that the israeli government has no more spies in the united states
pollard was a navy intelligence analyst who was working at the navy's new antiterrorism alert center during the 17 months when he spied for israel. he was sentenced in march 1987 to life imprisonment after pleading guilty to selling secrets to israel. he was arrested in november 1985 outside the israeli embassy in washington and is imprisoned in springfield, mo
pollard's wife, anne henderson-pollard, was sentenced in march 1987 to five years imprisonment after she pleaded guilty to conspiracy to receive embezzled government property and being an accessory after the fact to possession of state secrets. she has been moved to the federal medical center in rochester, minn., where she is suffering from a digestive tract disease
the post, quoting unidentified sources, said the belief that a mr. x must exist grew out of a massive debriefing and polygraphing of pollard over many months
pollard told authorities that his israeli handlers often specified by date and document control number the highly sensitive u.s. documents they wanted him to acquire, the newspaper said
the handlers once showed him a top secret u.s. document to which pollard himself did not have access, the post said, identifying the document as an index or catalog that pollard then could use to obtain other documents from u.s. intelligence agencies
investigators concluded that another american _ mr. x _ had provided that index and other specific information on u.s. secrets that pollard learned from his israeli handlers, the newspaper said
prosecutors have said pollard sold israel enough classified documents to fill a large, walk-in closet and called the spy case one of the nation's worst
the reagan administration is taking aim at a favorite budget-cutting target again this year, the dams and irrigation projects that are cherished by members of congress
the white house spending plan for fiscal 1989, sent to the capitol on thursday, calls for construction starts on only a half-dozen water projects by the army corps of engineers. and for the second consecutive year, no new projects were proposed for the bureau of reclamation
a year ago, the president's 1988 budget request included funds to begin 13 corps projects out of the scores authorized by congress under a 1986 law that required local beneficiaries to start paying a share of the costs
for decades, congress had cooperated closely with the corps and the bureau, simultaneously expanding business for both agencies and providing lawmakers with public works projects to extoll during re-election campaigns
the congressional response to reagan's request last year for only 13 new construction starts was to appropriate money to begin 21 corps projects, ranging from flood control dams to replacement of sand on eroding beaches
there was no immediate reaction among legislators thursday to the administration's proposal to start only six new flood control projects in fiscal 1989, which begins oct. 1
the battle over reagan's request probably will be fought in coming months during closed meetings of the house and senate appropriations committees
the slow-growth spending plan for water projects was termed ``a good one'' by robert dawson, associate director of the white house office of management and budget for natural resources, energy and science
it's a strong water development budget, clearly founded on the concept that the user must help pay the cost,'' he said. ``it shows that worthy projects can proceed even in times of budget austerity.''
the fiscal 1989 request for the corps totals nearly $3.3 billion. the bulk of it is earmarked to continue work on 157 projects under construction and to operate and maintain more than 650 completed projects
the total for the corps' flood control, navigation, recreation and environmental repair activities is only about $52 million more than congress appropriated for the current fiscal year
spending by the bureau of reclamation, an interior department agency operating in western states, would total $1.07 billion in fiscal 1989, just $13 million more than congress approved for fiscal 1988
the bureau's budget request calls for higher spending to solve environmental problems caused by irrigation systems, in line with a major redirection of the agency's activities last year
the bureaucratic changes, which include transferring the majority of the bureau's washington staff to denver, was tied to the reclamation reality that nearly all the major rivers in the water-short west have been dammed
the bureau's budget also includes a reshuffling of construction priorities aimed at channeling increasingly limited funds to more quickly complete major projects such as central arizona and central utah
last year, congress rejected an administration attempt to make an even more drastic reallocation of money among projects under construction
the six newly proposed corps projects are cache creek settling basin and the santa ana river mainstem in california; sheyenne river, west fargo and riverside in north dakota; the ramapo and mahwah rivers in new jersey and new york; lock haven in pennsylvania, and nonconnah creek in tennessee and mississippi
the nikkei stock average closed at 24,773.41 points, up 98.05 points, on the tokyo stock exchange friday
the defense department wants to spend $9 billion on military construction projects in fiscal 1989, including more than $1 billion for work outside the united states
of the $9 billion, more than $200 million has already been authorized, meaning that about $8.8 billion in new funds is being sought
within the united states, the biggest winners would be california, new york, texas, alaska and washington state, primarily because of work on new bases or seaports
abroad, the pentagon plans to spend the most in west germany, south korea, the philippines, england and italy, in that order
the $81.4 million request for construction work in the philippines comes at a time of instability in that country and uncertainty over whether the government of president corazon aquino will approve extension of leases for the subic naval base and clark air base beyond 1991
the pentagon has said it expects to negotiate new leases for the bases and will continue improving them in the meantime
also contained in president reagan's fiscal 1989 budget request, sent to congress on thursday, is $3 million to ``upgrade facilities'' in honduras, where u.s. forces regularly engage in maneuvers as part of a u.s. campaign to deter nicaraguan expansion
the budget plan also includes $9.9 million to improve air fields in oman near the persian gulf and $16 million for a missile range complex in the kwajalein islands in the pacific ocean for experiments on reagan's star wars missile defense system
the funds for more than 1,100 construction projects at more than 600 sites were contained in reagan's request for $299.5 billion in pentagon spending authority for the budget year starting oct. 1, compared with $291.4 billion this year
the administration initially had planned to spend more than $10.6 billion for construction next year, but was forced to trim back because of a deficit-reduction agreement with congress last november
of the $9 billion construction total, the pentagon said it would spend nearly $5.8 billion on military facilities and nearly $3.3 billion on housing. by contrast, the department plans to spend $8.7 billion this year, including $5.5 billion on new facilities and $3.2 billion on housing
nearly $600 million would be spent next year to build 3,226 new housing units and improve 16,900 existing units. the remaining $2.7 billion would be for operating and maintaining the 413,000 existing family units, the pentagon said
the military facility projects include work to support the b-1 bomber, the mx missile, the ``stealth'' bomber and new ports for ships joining the navy's fleet
among the larger individual projects are $56.3 million for a new naval submarine base at kings bay, ga.; $214 million in previouly authorized money for the new home of a light infantry division at fort drum, n.y.; $72.5 million for a major star wars test facility at falcon air station, colo., and $53 million for a new aircraft carrier base at everett, wash
including family housing funds and previously authorized projects, the pentagon said it planned to spend $666 million in california, $309.5 million in new york, $217.6 million in texas, $202.2 million in alaska and $201.2 million in washington state
besides the philippines, foreign spending would include $421.1 million in west germany, $133.6 million in south korea, $77.7 million in england and $50.4 million in italy
bruce babbitt closed the doors on his presidential race in the same way that he campaigned _ with grace and humor, and a pledge to continue to keep fighting for his vision of america
the former arizona governor stood before a roomful of supporters, tv lights and reporters on thursday to announce what had become apparent since his dismal sixth-place showing in new hampshire on tuesday: that he was ending the marathon he had officially started on march 10
but there was hopeful news for the babbitt faithful _ their champion said he wasn't bowing out of the political arena completely
indeed, staffers at his new hampshire campaign office were answering the phone on thursday with the words, ``babbitt in '92.''
babbitt said he's making no plans for 1992, and hopes to be supporting an incumbent democratic president. nonetheless, he stated:
i want to be a positive part of this process. i'm not leaving _ it's too much fun, and i am too much an optimist, and too much an american who believes in the process to walk away from it or to say anything negative about the candidates.''
with an endorsement of the campaign process, if not of any rival candidate, babbitt said he intends to continue speaking out and ``chiding'' the other candidates because ``there's room for improvement'' in the field
babbitt's departure was relaxed, upbeat and laughter-filled, with no trace of bitterness that his long quest had ended so early in the 1988 primary season
the tall, lanky 49-year-old, flanked by his wife hattie and two young sons, cracked jokes, often as not poking fun at himself and the campaign that never caught fire. it was a babbitt typical of the man reporters covering him had grown to expect
babbitt seemed to have general affection for the press corps, which had bolstered his cash-poor campaign with a spate of positive articles highlighting his frankness, his willingness to take unpopular stands such as his call for a national sales tax, and his quotable and colorful remarks
at one point, the favorable publicity before the iowa caucuses , which never quite coincided with babbitt's low poll standings, came to be known as the ``babbitt boomlet.''
on thursday, babbitt kiddingly accused the media of a conspiracy to discredit him with the public by ``making me into kind of a house pet.''
as he left the podium, babbitt closed his news conference by saying, ``thank you very much, it's been an honor and a privilege.''
campaign manager fred duval said one supporter remarked to him afterward, ``that wasn't a press conference. that was an encounter group.''
in contrast to the rancorous withdrawals by past candidates who blamed press scrutiny for their troubles, duval said that one line that had been suggested to babbitt to use as he exited the race was, ``after this you won't have bruce babbitt to puff any more.''
the line was a parody of richard nixon's 1962 remark that he was leaving politics and the press wouldn't have him to ``kick around'' any more
babbitt seemed genuinely reluctant to leave the final press conference of his campaign, modestly stating that he had monopolized a half hour of reporters' time but would take a couple more questions, and then, ``i'll stay around for a while. ... as vicious and unprincipled as you've been, i hate to let loose,'' he joked
later at a farewell luncheon for his staff, the mood was teary and affectionate as loyalists recounted what the campaign had meant to them
there's been tears ... equal doses of disappointment and affection,'' said duval. ``everybody feels as if they've just tasted an extraordinary experience.''
even on the night of the new hampshire debacle, babbitt and his supporters partied as if they were at a victory celebration, the candidate and his wife dancing the twist until 1:30 a.m
they cheered every percentage point as a victory of sorts _ this collection of salesmen, students, writers, politicians and lawyers turned envelope stuffers, telephone operators and chauffeurs. and they left convinced they had done the right thing
babbitt compared traveling the debate circuit with his democratic rivals to going to summer camp ``when all of a sudden you're living in the same cabin with a bunch of guys that you never knew before.''
but he said he would be happy to back any one of the democrats who gets the nomination
one of them, sen. paul simon, on thursday, said, ``seeing bruce leave the campaign trail is like seeing an army buddy ship out to go home. he has contributed much to this campaign.''
the biggest merger in new york legal history was announced by one of the nation's oldest law firms, lord, day &amp; lord, which plans to join with a slightly smaller new york city firm
the merger announced thursday with barrett smith simon &amp; armstrong will create a firm of 170 to 180 lawyers that will be among the nation's 75 largest firms
lord, day &amp; lord, suffering from the recent defections of top partners, will change its name for the first time since its founding 140 years ago. it will be known starting march 31 as lord day &amp; lord, barrett smith
the new york times said friday that the deal was prompted in part by pressure from clients to match huge firms that offer larger staffs capable of handling bigger deals, more complex lawsuits and more diverse services
both firms serve a number of prestigious clients in business and the arts but have been hurt recently by the loss of top lawyers who took leading clients with them, the times said. a.m. est</note>
seeking to break an impasse in peace talks, cardinal miguel obando y bravo urged contra rebels to accept a 30-day truce in exchange for four major concessions from nicaragua's sandinista government
the contras said they accepted ``in principle'' the proposal forwarded thursday night. the leftist sandinistas called it ``interesting and constructive,'' but said it needed clarification
obando y bravo, leader of nicaragua's roman catholics, is mediating the talks, whihc were to resume today
the concessions requested of the sandinistas are:
_a ``full, general'' amnesty for the several thousand political prisoners in nicaraguan jails, including all members of the national guard of former dictator gen. anastasio somoza, whom the sandinistas overthrew in 1979
_full freedom of the press, which now is granted only to a few communications outlets, including the opposition newspaper la prensa and radio catolica, the voice of the catholic church
_a promise to ``reconsider'' a mandatory military draft law, which has sparked violent disturbances in several nicaraguan cities by young men and the mothers of draft-age youths. the most recent disturbance was in masaya only a week ago
_renewal of a dialogue with the sandinistas' internal political opposition, which is calling along with the contras for 17 changes in nicaragua's constitution. the talks broke off last year
victor hugo tinoco, nicaragua's deputy foreign minister, said the cease-fire proposed by the cardinal was ``vague and ill-defined'' and would have to be clarified before the government could respond to the plan
the four requirements for the nicaraguan government are very clear and very well defined,'' tinoco said. ``the requirement for the contras is not quite clear.''
tinoco said the cardinal did not define ``when the cease-fire is going to happen, how long it is going to be, where it is going to be'' or how it would be verified. ``we have to clarify what the contras are going to give in exchange,'' he said
obando y bravo said he offered the plan after the two sides were unable to agree on the philosophy underlying a cease-fire
the contras had argued that any truce must be preceded by democratic reforms, while the sandinistas contended hostilities must end before real change can begin
we argued a long time,'' the cardinal said. ``we could not come to agreement on the definitions.''
the concessions requested by obando y bravo of the government were among many the contras have been demanding for some time
the rebels have also been seeking tri-partite talks among the sandinistas, their internal opposition and the contras. the cardinal did not forward that demand
nor did the requested concessions specifically address other contra concerns, including constitutional changes that would prevent a nicaraguan president from succeeding himself, separate the army from the sandinista political party and establish a tribunal to guarantee constitutional rights
obando y bravo said the inability of both sides to ``define a cease-fire'' led to ``an impasse'' after just two hours of talks thursday, the opening day of their second round of face-to-face peace negotiations
the first direct talks took place in san jose, costa rica, in late january, only a week before the u.s. house of representatives rejected president reagan's request for $36.2 million in additional contra aid
the two sides presented their basic bargaining positions in the san jose talks, which all participants characterized as cordial but lacking in progress
the sandinistas and the contras came to guatemala city clearly stating that they were still far apart on the question of which should come first, a cease-fire or democratic reforms in nicaragua
rock diva madonna has a date on broadway in her new play, ``speed-the-plow,'' even though the curtain has yet to go up on the production at a small lincoln center theater
speed-the-plow'' begins preview performances march 29 at lincoln center's 299-seat mitzi newhouse theater and will run through april 24. an official opening date has not been announced
it will reopen april 26 at the 1,058-seat royale theater on broadway
ticket requests have been so overwhelming that the computerized ticket agency telecharge has installed a special number for the broadway version, said show spokesman merle debuskey
the david mamet play, also starring joe mantegna and ron silver, is about two hollywood producers and their office ``temp.''
lauren bacall says humphrey bogart did not give their marriage much chance after they wed when she was 20 years old
but the union produced a son and daughter and did not end until bogart's death 12 years after the marriage. that's longevity by hollywood standards. and miss bacall credits it to bogart's determination not to allow work to separate them
i never went on location to shoot a film,'' she said in an interview in the current issue of us magazine
the agreement before we got married was that i would not take off and leave him behind. when he went on location i went with him,'' the sultry-voiced actress said
bogart, who was a quarter-century older than miss bacall when they were married in 1945, once said he had ``figured i would leave him in five years, because i didn't know anything about life and the world at that point,'' said miss bacall
director john boorman says his movie ``hope and glory,'' which received five academy award nominations, almost was not finished because of financial problems
hope and glory'' won best picture and best director from the los angeles film critics and 13 nominations feb. 9 from the british academy of film and television arts. its oscar nominations announced wednesday included best picture, direction and script
boorman, 55, recalled the day in june 1986 when he found himself $3 million short of the $9 million needed to finance the movie
i was going down to the set on a friday morning at 7 o'clock to give the men all their notices to stop the picture,'' he said in a telephone interview from his paris apartment
but both the money and a studio, columbia, were eventually found. the critics and word of mouth did the rest
alan alda, star of the ``m-a-s-h'' television series, makes his debut this weekend in advertising for ibm, and may team up with other cast members from the popular show already pitching the company's computers
international business machines corp. said thursday that alda, who played wisecracking surgeon hawkeye pierce in ``m-a-s-h,'' signed a multiyear agreement earlier this month to appear in its commercials
the company would not say how much alda was being paid
the first ads featuring alda will appear saturday during abc-tv's olympics broadcasts, ibm said, and will continue on several programs through april
alda will initially appear alone in the ibm ads. the company eventually plans to work him into ads featuring other former ``m-a-s-h'' actors, said dave mcgovern, an advertising executive for ibm
ibm launched advertising last april for a new family of personal computers featuring seven former ``m-a-s-h'' cast members, including gary burghoff, who played radar o'reilly; harry morgan, who was col. sherman potter; and loretta swit who played hot lips houlihan. in the ads, they played office co-workers
conspicuously absent from the ibm group was alda, who reportedly was still under contract to another computer company, atari corp
dallas'' star victoria principal said she came to the general assembly with a constituency of her own _ 600,000 kentucky arthritis sufferers
miss principal, who plays pam ewing on the cbs tv show, appeared before senate committees thursday in her role as spokeswoman and lobbyist for the national arthritis foundation
the beverly hills, calif., actress was pushing for passage of a senate bill to make expensive anti-arthritis drugs available by prescription to medicaid patients without prior approval by the state social services agency
gov. wallace wilkinson made it academic, ordering a policy change to do what the bill seeks
miss principal expressed gratitude, but insisted legislation was still needed. ``arthritis is a serious, staggering health problem in our country, in this state and in your district. it's not just a nuisance and it's not just a problem of old age,'' she said
the afl-cio has accused united press international of attempting to ``bust'' the union representing the news service's writers, editors and photographers
the labor federation, in a statement issued by its executive council on thursday, condemned upi's ``callous treatment of its employees'' in declaring an impasse last october in negotiations on a new contract and unilaterally imposing ``harsh new work rules.''
members of the newspaper guild ... are fighting to save their union and their jobs from efforts by upi's owner to bust the union and shut down many of the news service's operations,'' the 36-member council of union presidents said
afl-cio secretary-treasurer thomas r. donahue called the dispute between the guild's wire service local 222 and upi ``the latest struggle in a decade of employee sacrifice to keep the financially troubled news service afloat.''
the labor federation said upi employees have agreed to major concessions including pay, pension and benefit cuts since 1978, and stayed on the job despite bounced paychecks when the company sought bankruptcy protection in 1985
newspaper guild president charles dale said the company's last contract proposal would ``eliminate job security and allow upi to subcontract all bargaining unit work to itself for the sole purpose of cutting wages again and the destruction of the union.''
dale said upi has fired 112 employees and put no money into its employee pension plan since nov. 12
chris smith, a upi spokesman at its headquarters in washington, said the company's last offer and imposed work rules include a 16 percent pay raise over the next two years for top-scale editorial workers
smith said 181 employees have left the company's payroll since oct. 1 but that 70 of them have been replaced
upi has ``never made an expression to use its subcontracting power to replace existing full-time news staff,'' smith said. ``it hasn't happened and we don't anticipate it happening.'' 4th graf pvs bgng, ``there's absolutely ...</note>
the u.s. dollar edged up against the japanese yen in tokyo friday, while stock prices rallied for the seventh consecutive trading day
the dollar closed at 130.53 yen, up 0.53 yen from thursday's close of 130.00 yen. it had opened at 130.33 yen and traded in a narrow range of 130.30-130.55 yen
on the tokyo stock exchange, the nikkei stock average of 225 selected issues, a 245.41-point winner thursday, added another 98.05 points to close the week's trading at 24,773.41
there's absolutely nothing to move the market, no market-motivating news, and the dollar is dead,'' said a trader with a major commercial bank
the dealer, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said currency trading was also dampened by a holiday in hong kong and the slow start-up of trading in singapore after a holiday
japanese housing and retail shares posted gains along with high-technology issues and those of importers
these sectors are moving the market as the country seems determined to address the trade imbalance problem and expand domestic demand,'' said yoshio ogawa of nikko securities
tobacco is still a titan in many of the 14 southern and border states that will hold presidential primaries march 8. but some say it's no longer political suicide in the tobacco belt to talk about health risks of smoking or to voice opposition to government subsidies of the industry
testing that theory in recent weeks, two southerners hoping for strong presidential showings in the region _ republican pat robertson and democrat albert gore jr. _ have raised eyebrows with statements about tobacco that might have doomed them in past campaigns
in an article in conservative digest, robertson proposed a 10-year phaseout of the domestic tobacco industry, which employs 710,000 people and generates $14.1 billion per year in wages and benefits
robertson called for federal assistance to cushion the blow for farmers and cigarette manufacturers
gore's statements were less provocative. during a mid-january debate in iowa, he said he opposed federal subsidies of tobacco and supported federal anti-smoking programs targeted at young people
rep. charles rose, a north carolina democrat who is chairman of the house subcommittee on tobacco and peanuts, says the industry still wields enormous clout
it's a very silent but powerful force in southern politics,'' rose said
but jim van hecke, north carolina democratic chairman, said growers were more outspoken in past decades because there was less scientific evidence of the dangers of smoking. also, the growth of southern cities and the arrival of workers and industries from other areas have made the region's economy more diverse
it has become routine for presidential candidates venturing into north carolina, south carolina, virginia, kentucky, tennessee and georgia to face questions about their stands on the federal tobacco program and the government's war on smoking. few had openly defied the tobacco industry until this year
robertson's industry-phaseout plan was widely condemned in tobacco circles
ludicrous and asinine,'' said joe king, a grower and president of the 300-member south carolina tobacco association
however, earl black, political science professor at the university of south carolina, said, ``robertson's getting some criticism but he's also getting some praise for having the courage to take on an issue like this.''
in robertson's home state of virginia, the impact has been hard to gauge, said steve haner, executive director of the state's republican legislative caucus
you go down to southside virginia where they grow the stuff and it's fatal to talk like that,'' haner said. but he also said robertson had ``a committed cadre of followers'' who would not desert him because of his stand on tobacco
robertson himself sounded unconcerned. ``i'm not about to lose any votes on this,'' the former television evangelist said in columbia, s.c. ``i'm on the side of the angels on this one.''
gore, a u.s. senator from tennessee, said he opposed subsidies ``in spite of the fact that there are 100,000 tobacco farmers in my home state.'' the federal tobacco program is financed through fees paid by the growers, not direct government payments
many of this year's presidential hopefuls have tried to please the tobacco industry as well as increasingly assertive non-smokers by separating the health and economic issues
you can be against smoking cigarettes without being against family farmers who grow tobacco,'' jesse jackson said recently
massachusetts gov. michael dukakis told an audience in wilson, n.c., that he had ``no problem'' with the existing tobacco program, but he urged farmers to grow other crops as well
rep. richard gephardt of missouri is an enthusiastic supporter of the tobacco program. ``it encourages an orderly market for tobacco. we're going to have tobacco and tobacco products in america and it's just a matter of where it's grown.''
on the republican side, rep. jack kemp said he would continue support programs for tobacco and other commodities where necessary but preferred the free-market system
prime minister margaret thatcher said britain must retain nuclear weapons because without them soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev could threaten western europe
soviet superiority in conventional and chemical weapons would guarantee gorbachev ``would get what he wanted,'' mrs. thatcher said on commercial television's ``news at ten'' thursday night
three hours earlier on another commercial television newscast, soviet foreign ministry spokesman gennadi gerasimov said he did not accept mrs. thatcher's view that british nuclear weapons were vital to western security
i don't accept this because we want to see the world nuclear-free and we cannot see it nuclear-free if britain is going to keep her nuclear forces,'' he said
gerasimov said although the united states and the soviet union want to get rid of nuclear weapons, the british did not
we are believers, you are non-believers. you do not believe in a nuclear-free world. so our task is to convert you to our faith,'' he said
asked about this later, mrs. thatcher responded: ``i want a war-free europe. a nuclear-free europe i do not believe would be a war-free europe.''
she added, ``the nuclear weapon has kept the peace in western europe for 40 years
of course mr. gorbachev wants to get rid of nuclear weapons out of western europe because he knows that if he does, the enormous superiority he has got in men, in tanks, in aircraft, in all conventional weapons, and the colossal superiority in chemical weapons, would mean that if he got the nuclear weapon out of europe, we would never be able to deter an aggressor.''
mrs thatcher said: ``he could almost threaten, and he would get what he wanted. it's my job, as head of government, to see that no one who wants to threaten western europe has any chance of succeeding
the only way to do that is to see that we have a sure defense.''
she concluded: ``you are not sure because of your own virtue. you are sure because the men, the materials, the weapons, including the nuclear, are there
and if you make a mistake now it may not affect our generation, but it may affect future generations because one mistake will take 10 or 12 years to recover.'' throughout with teen-ager turning up at school with head shaved, telling friends he was having trouble with parents, family van found and car stolen. no pickup.</note>
a couple and two of their children were slain in their nightclothes with a hatchet thursday, and the couple's 16-year-old son was being sought for questioning, authorities said
the bodies of bernard brom, his wife, paullette, and children diane, 14, and rick, 9 were found thursday night at their home in suburban cascade township, said olmsted county sheriff charles von wald
a bloody ax 2 to 3 feet long was found in the basement, von wald said
the sheriff said a nationwide bulletin was issued for the broms' 16-year-old son and the family van. the boy was at lourdes high school on thursday morning but did not attend classes, the sheriff said
friends at the school said the boy had dyed his hair black, shaved the sides of his head and spiked the hair in back, von wald said. the youth also bought a wig and makeup
he indicated he was having some trouble with his parents,'' von wald said. ``one student said he was having trouble with his dad because of a tape he had bought and he didn't want him listening to it
bernard and rick brom's bodies were found in their upstairs bedrooms, and paullette and diane brom's bodies were in an upstairs hallway, the sheriff said. he said they were slain early in the morning
the house is among four on a road in a quiet, well-to-do area of cascade township
von wald said the sheriff's department received a call at about 5:30 p.m. from an unidentified school official about a possible problem at the house
the family van had been missing but was found late thursday, von wald said. a car and another car's license plates were reported stolen from the vicinity of the high school
president reagan's 1989 budget would boost america's space and science spending by 20 percent and proposes new funds to put astronauts on mars, probe particles smaller than the atom and listen for voices from distant galaxies
the $13.1 billion general science request is an increase of $2.2 billion over this year and includes start-up funds for the superconducting super collider in the department of energy and the space station in the national aeronautics and space administration
nasa also would get start-up money for a new machine to search for radio signals from unknown sources in outer space _ an effort to answer the ageless question of whether there is intelligent life elsewhere in the universe
the spending plan, part of reagan's $1.1 trillion fiscal 1989 budget proposal delivered to congress on thursday, calls for new money for a national science foundation program to develop scientists and engineers for america's future and to continue fundamental research at colleges and universities
our faith in science and technology has served us very well in the past,'' said william r. graham, the presidential science adviser. ``we see this as the dawn (of this concept) and not the end of it.''
the budget calls for $400 million to start construction of the super collider. the experimental device would be the world's most powerful proton collider, capable of conducting research into fundamental subatomic particles
several states are competing for the $4 billion super collider, but a final location has not been determined
the department of energy's science budget authority for 1989 would total $1.2 billion, a 49 percent increase over the 1988 level. most of the increase would go to the collider
james fletcher, the nasa administrator, told reporters that reagan's budget follows a policy that ``clearly commits the united states to space leadership as a fundamental objective.''
for the first time, he said, it also funds a national goal of putting astronauts on other planets. about $100 million is planned for the pathfinder project, an effort to develop the technologies needed to send astronauts to mars in the next century
the budget asks nearly $1 billion to start construction of the space station, a permanent orbital base that nasa plans to have in operation in the mid-1990s. nasa officials had hoped for a presidential commitment of about $1.8 billion, but even the reduced amount may run into resistance in congress
i am not prepared to sacrifice important science projects, including environmental earth studies, to build a space hotel,'' said rep. bill green, r-n.y., the ranking republican on the house subcommittee for independent agencies
nasa's total budget outlay would increase by about 20 percent, from $9.11 billion in 1988 to $10.97 billion in 1989
the funding would include the final expenses in recovering from the challenger accident and returning the space shuttle fleet to orbit. seven missions are planned for the shuttle in fiscal year 1989, with the resumption of flights planned for next august
tucked into the budget is a modest $9 million to start building an instrument that would be able to listen to thousands of different radio frequencies at once. fletcher said the instrument, which is planned for operation by 1992, is part of a continuing search for civilizations that may be sending signals from planets far beyond the solar system
there also are funds for nasa's share of a joint project with the air force to develop the spaceplane, a transport capable of carrying cargo and passengers around the earth at hypersonic speeds by cruising in and out of space
the national science foundation, which endured heavy cuts in congress in its 1988 budget, would increase its 1989 outlay from $1.65 billion to $1.80 billion, a boost of about 9 percent
erich bloch, the nsf director, said the president's budget would include a program to establish 10 to 15 basic science research centers over the next five years
bloch said the nsf would put a much heavier emphasis than in the past on programs to boost science and math education on the ``pre-college'' level, an effort to boost the number of students attracted to the science and technical fields
here are some highlights of president reagan's budget message to congress
by reordering priorities so that we spend more on national security and less on wasteful or unnecessary federal programs, we have made freedom more secure around the world and have been able to negotiate with our adversaries from a position of strength
by pursuing market-oriented economic policies, we have uncorked the genie of american enterprise and created new businesses, more jobs, improved production, and widespread prosperity
and we have done all this without neglecting the poor, the elderly, the infirm, and the unfortunate among us
this budget does not fully reflect my priorities, nor, presumably, those of any particular member of congress
but the goal of deficit reduction through spending reduction must be paramount
abandoning the deficit reduction compromise would threaten our economic progress and burden future generations
i propose an increase of $656 million ... for discretionary programs of the department of education. although state and local governments fund most educational activity, federal programs provide crucial aid for the poor, the handicapped, and the educationally disadvantaged
i have proposed reform of our overcentralized welfare system through state experimentation with innovative alternatives...
ineffective programs to assist dislocated workers would be replaced by an expanded $1 billion worker readjustment program (wrap) carefully designed to help those displaced from their jobs move quickly into new careers
i propose a continued increase in federally supported basic research aimed at longer-term improvements in the nation's productivity and global competitiveness...
i would provide $11.5 billion for space programs...
i also recommend $363 million in 1989 to initiate construction of the superconducting super collider (ssc), including $283 million for construction and $60 million for supporting research and development...
i continue to urge enactment of an affordable self-financing insurance program through medicare to protect families from economic devastation caused by catastrophic illness
to attack the scourge of aids, i propose $2 billion for additional research, education, and treatment in 1989 _ a 38 percent increase over the 1988 level...
building upon the nation's pre-eminence in basic biomedical research, i seek a 5.1 percent increase for non-aids research at the national institutes of health
for expanded law enforcement ... i propose $4.5 billion _ an increase of 6 percent over 1988
for drug law enforcement, prevention, and treatment programs, i propose $3.9 billion in 1989, a 13 percent increase over the 1988 level
to relieve prison overcrowding and adequately house a growing inmate population, i would provide $437 million _ more than double the $202 million devoted to federal prison construction in 1988
for the federal aviation administration to continue its multiyear program to modernize the nation's air traffic control systems, i would provide $1.6 billion _ a 44 percent increase over the level of 1988
to carry out the joint recommendations of the u.s. and canadian special envoys on acid rain, i recommend total funding of $2.5 billion for innovative clean coal technology demonstration projects over the period 1988 through 1992
i also recommend an expansion of hazardous waste cleanup efforts, with an increase in superfund outlays of some $430 million in 1989
to continue filling the strategic petroleum reserve (spr) at the current rate of 50,000 barrels per day, i would provide $334 million in 1989. contingent upon the enactment of legislation authorizing the sale of the naval petroleum reserves (npr), i would provide an additional $477 million to bring the fill rate up to 100,000 barrels per day...
to improve the speed and accuracy of tax processing and expand information services provided to taxpayers, i would provide a $241 million increase for the internal revenue service...
the proposals for national security contained in this budget represent an essential minimum program for keeping america safe and honoring our commitments to our friends and allies...
...my budget requests defense funding of $299.5 billion in budget authority and $294 billion in outlays for 1989. it also provides for about 2 percent real growth in these programs in future years...
...i plan to continue pushing for the elimination of artificially high (farm) price supports, thereby reducing the need for export subsidies
the budget proposes certain reforms in the medicare program ... to limit payments for certain overpriced physician procedures, limit payments for durable medical equipment and supplies, and eliminate a loophole in the payment process for kidney dialysis. in total, these reforms would reduce spending for medicare by $1.2 billion from the level that would occur if current law were continued
the government often continues programs at the federal level that are no longer needed. this is the case with rural housing programs, the economic development administration, urban mass transit discretionary grants, urban development action grants, sewage treatment, small business administration direct loans, housing development action grants, the housing rehabilitation loan program, and economic development programs of the tennessee valley authority...
...my budget proposes termination of the interstate commerce commission, contingent upon enactment of legislation that completes deregulation of the motor carrier industry
...i am proposing the sale not only of the naval petroleum reserves, but also of the alaska power administration, the federal government's helium program, excess real property and a further $12 billion in loan portfolios. in addition, i have proposed legislation to authorize a study of possible divestiture of the southeastern power administration, and plan to study possible privatization of our uranium enrichment facilities, as well as ways of making the u.s. postal service more efficient through greater reliance on the private sector
i am proposing the development of a private mediating institution to reduce the backlog of cases before the u.s. tax court.... i also encourage the complete privatization of wastewater treatment plants, certain mass transit projects, the department of agriculture's national finance center and the rural telephone bank
...our administration plans to initiate privatization and commercialization efforts involving federal prison industries, relying on a private space facility for micro-gravity research opportunities in the early 1990s, commercial cargo inspection, military commissaries, coast guard buoy maintenance and the management of undeveloped federal land. moreover, my budget proposes that the work associated with certain federal employment positions be reviewed for the feasibility of contracting their responsibilities...
...i propose in this budget a new approach to paying federal employees who increase their productivity. i ask the congress to modify the current system of virtually automatic ``within-grade'' pay increases for the roughly 40 percent of employees eligible each year to one that is based on employee performance
...a constitutional amendment to balance the federal budget _ and a provision requiring a super-majority vote in the congress to increase taxes _ would impose some much-needed discipline on the congressional budget process
i will shortly transmit legislation that will require any future legislation creating new federal programs to be deficit-neutral...requiring the concurrent enactment of equal amounts of program reductions or revenue increases...
it had all the trappings of a campaign rally. the only thing missing was a presidential candidate
on thursday night _ hours after delaware's former governor announced he was dropping out of the race for the republican presidential nomination _ du pont was greeting supporters at a high school, thanking them for their help in fueling his longshot campaign
the du pont partisans, who had made nearly 400,000 telephone calls for their candidate, who had sent out more than a million pieces of mail, crowded around, cheering, sporting ``pete 1992'' buttons
in america nobody promises you you're gonna win,'' du pont said as he announced his withdrawal. ``america only promises you're gonna get your chance to try. she gave us our chance. we took it. we used it. we did well with it. and of that i am enormously proud.''
at the rally, du pont, never letting go of wife elise's hand, tried to greet everyone, to shake every hand on his way to the stage
ironically, the campaign folded in part because of money. it's ironic because the du pont name is synonymous with big bucks
he is the great-grandson of the founder of the du pont co.; his wife is a descendant of benjamin franklin and an heiress to a dairy fortune
du pont and top aides decided there was not enough time to raise the millions needed for a respectable campaign leading up to super tuesday on march 8. the campaign ended, however, with no debt and $350,000 on hand
the couple's daughter elise was there for thursday night's farewell, as were sons pierre and benjamin franklin. eleuthere, known as ``there,'' was ``back at college doing what he ought to be doing _ getting his college degree,'' du pont said
du pont, who was heading to iowa and then new hampshire next week to thank supporters, first wanted to thank those who have supported him through a stint in the state legislature, three terms as delaware's lone congressman, and the maximum two terms as governor
the 53-year-old du pont announced his candidacy sept. 16, 1986 _ 17 months before the new hampshire primary. he was the first republican in the field. he said then if he did not do well in iowa and new hampshire, he would pull out of the race
he was fifth in a field of six gop candidates in the iowa caucuses. he was fourth out of five in the new hampshire primary
the two contests marked the first electoral losses in his political career
the harvard law school graduate is convinced, however, that his campaign made a difference
in those 17 months we contributed something here. we changed the agenda. we put forward a set of proposals that made a difference,'' he said
du pont garnered attention, if not widespread support, with his provocative approach to certain issues such as mandatory drug testing in high schools, a workfare program to replace welfare, and a private alternative to social security
he talked about what might have been
according to du pont, tracking polls showed he was solidly ahead of jack kemp the friday before tuesday's primary
if that election had been held on friday we'd be in south carolina tonight,'' he said to the cheering crowd
du pont talked about the future, particularly the republican national convention this summer in new orleans
we didn't get quite as many votes as we needed, but we did what was right for the country. and now our job is to keep talking for those things that are right for the country and make sure that those other candidates adopt our ideas. make sure they get into the republican platform,'' he said
du pont affectionately scolded his supporters, telling them not to be unhappy about the end of his candidacy
some of you are sad and you're not allowed to be sad because this is not a sad occasion. this is a celebration of a campaign for the presidency of the united states,'' he said. ``it was run the way campaigns ought to be run. on principles, on issues.''
you're not allowed to be sad but you're allowed to say we fought the good fight. we nearly won it,'' he said
you were part of a little moment in history,'' he told them, ``that will live in my heart for a long while.'' strategy</head>
vice president george bush won a presidential straw poll of nevada republicans, but his tally was nearly equaled by undecided votes _ many of which were believed to have been cast by supporters of pat robertson in a bid to control later balloting
with only a tiny fraction of returns still unreported from caucuses around the state thursday night, bush had 1,341 votes in the non-binding straw poll, and undecided votes totaled 1,146
steve wark, robertson coordinator in nevada, said many robertson voters cast undecided ballots as part of a strategy to win in later voting for delegates to the upcoming county conventions
they did that to protect their (convention) delegates,'' said state gop chairwoman sally vitkus-mckinney. ``that's politics.''
we knew that the dole and bush people would get together to try and squash us if we came out strong in the straw poll,'' wark said. even so, robertson, a former television evangelist, had 733 votes outright
kansas sen. bob dole had 1,130 votes, officially finishing ahead of robertson but lagging behind the undecided tally. rep. jack kemp had 644 votes
former delaware gov. pete du pont, who dropped out of the gop race on thursday, got 39 votes and former secretary of state alexander haig, who called it quits last week, got six votes
the caucuses were open only to registered nevada republicans, and the straw poll was conducted by secret ballot
the caucuses drew several thousand of the more than 120,000 republicans registered to vote in nevada. the registration total has gone up several thousand since jan. 1, but exact numbers weren't available
ms. vitkus-mckinney said the increase was due both to state gop registration efforts and to separate efforts by the robertson camp
whether the robertson strategy in the straw poll worked remains to be seen. the makeup of the delegations to the county conventions won't be known for several more days and even then delegates won't have to publicly declare their presidential preferences
the straw poll was developed last summer, before former nevada sen. paul laxalt announced in september that he wouldn't seek the gop presidential nomination. he would have been the probable nevada poll winner had he stayed in the running, ms. vitkus-mckinney said
a television station that pre-empted two minutes of ``jeopardy'' to report on a plane crash later broadcast the missing game-show footage during its news programs after viewers complained, station officials said
viewers missed less than two minutes of `jeopardy.' but those were the final minutes, and so we replayed them,'' said wxfl-tv general manager jim saunders
two people were killed tuesday when a twin-engine plane slammed into a house in dunedin
on wednesday, wxfl broadcast the end of ``jeopardy'' twice, once during the station's noon and 6 p.m. news shows
saunders said he did not know how many complaint calls were received tuesday, but a source at the station told the tampa tribune the number was ``well over 300.''
most americans don't know the recommended blood cholesterol levels, but do have a general knowledge of what cholesterol is, according to a louis harris poll sponsored by the maker of a cholesterol-lowering drug
seventy-nine percent of those asked didn't know the recommended cholesterol levels, according to the survey sponsored by bristol laboratories, makers of the cholesterol-lowering drug questran
however, most had general knowledge of cholesterol, the survey showed. eighty-three percent identified it as a fatty substance, and 96 percent said they knew that eating fatty foods can elevate cholesterol levels
cholesterol has been linked to heart disease
the survey was based on telephone interviews with 1,438 americans over age 18 conducted between dec. 22, 1987 and jan. 14, 1988
stock prices rallied for the seventh consecutive day in active trading in tokyo today, while the u.s. dollar climbed slightly
on the tokyo stock exchange, the nikkei stock average of 225 selected shares, a 245.41-point winner thursday, added another 98.05 points or 0.4 percent and closed the week's trading at 24,773.41
share prices rose almost across the board. we expect the stock average to top the 25,000-level pretty soon,'' said hiromi yoneyama of wako securities
he said institutional investors were especially active in areas such as steel and shipbuilding. volume of the first-section trade reached the 1 billion-share mark for the first time in six weeks, up from 750 million shares thursday
electrical issues scored strong gains, while automobiles and steel also rose
on the tokyo foreign exchange market, the dollar closed the week's trading at 130.53 yen, up 0.53 yen from thursday's close of 130.00. it had opened at 130.33 yen and traded in a narrow range of 130.30-130.55 yen
ken iio of the bank of tokyo said trading was quiet ahead of the weekend with no major news affecting dealing today
the influential hong kong and singapore markets, which were closed part of this week due to the chinese new year's holiday, also made the dealing sluggish, he said. the volume of trade was a moderate $2.296 billion
stroke victims confined to wheelchairs for many years after their attacks can be taught to walk or climb stairs again, according to a new study by researchers who say therapists shouldn't give up
some patients who took part in a rehabilitation program were able to make improvements 40 years after their strokes, a doctor said
this is a group that generally doesn't get rehabilitated,'' said dr. paul bach-y-rita. ``they are almost totally forgotten. and we show they can make significant recovery with the right program.''
bach-y-rita, a physician at the university of wisconsin in madison, presented his findings on about 200 patients thursday at an american heart association meeting on strokes
in a separate report, dr. james n. davis of duke university said drugs may help speed up recovery in the days immediately after a stroke
strokes occur when the flow of the blood to the brain is disrupted. often an artery is clogged by a blood clot, starving some of the brain of oxygen carried by blood. other strokes occur when a blood vessel bursts, flooding the brain with blood
about 500,000 americans suffered strokes in 1985, the last year for which statistics are available, and 152,700 of them died
more than a third of all stroke victims die within a month of their attacks. about a third of the survivors need help caring for themselves, often because one side of their bodies is partially paralyzed
the latest research is part of a growing interest among specialists in helping the brain shift important functions, such as control of movement, from the damaged part of the brain to undamaged regions
these experts have found that over time, even injured brain cells can sprout new branches and connections that help repair damage
the program developed by bach-y-rita and a colleague, dr. richard balliet, sets small goals for longtime stroke victims, such as learning to move a finger or twist a wrist through exercise
as a patient recovers even small amounts initially and knows that recovery is possible, that patient will work very hard, even without a therapist there, to get to the next grade of recovery,'' he said. ``over a period of time, it adds up to significant functional improvement.''
patients visit the rehabilitation clinic for a week at a time every two or three months, he said. the rest of the time they work at home, usually with relatives' help
bach-y-rita said some patients who were confined to wheelchairs for many years learned to walk and climb stairs again. others have become able to employ a useless hand or arm for such chores as eating and supporting themselves
you dangle in front of us who deal with people with stroke the exciting possiblity that something can be done to treat these people to restore their independence,'' said dr. fletcher h. mcdowell of cornell medical college. ``if you are right at all, we all ought to be doing it.''
bach-y-rita said, ``pick out a few of your patients who are five or 10 years post-stroke and convince yourself how you can obtain function. if you pick realistic goals in a few patients, i think you are going to get so excited, you won't stop.''
he cautioned, however, that patients must have good mental function and a will to work and improve
davis said he has preliminary evidence that amphetamines, given soon after a stroke, appear to speed some people's recovery significantly
i'm not trying to argue that it will work in all patients,'' he said. ``but there are some patients in whom you can facilitate rehabilitation with drugs.'' late-morning event in oklahoma city</note>
vice president george bush is proposing a program of spending restraint that would balance the budget by 1993, while claiming that sen. bob dole's plan ``sounds easy, but it isn't decisive.''
on the same day that president reagan sent a $1.1 trillion budget to congress, bush also claimed that dole's fiscal policy would ``cut into social security and colas and reduce the checks for our senior citizens.''
bush elaborated on his budget proposal while predicting he would score the most impressive victories in the super tuesday series of republican party primaries and caucuses in the south and border states
he also said he will honor his commitment to take part in tonight's gop candidate debate here, despite dole's withdrawal, because ``we're committed.''
during a heavy day of campaigning here and in missouri, bush also said he didn't want to get into ``name-calling'' battles with dole, his closest competitor for the party's presidential nomination
bush, in fact, did not name dole when he told an audience in joplin, mo. that ``one candidate'' is supporting a budget freeze proposal that would provide only a 2 percent window of flexibility on additional spending
it sounds easy, but it isn't decisive,'' bush said. ``it's ducking decisions about where you cut and where you add.'' he said dole's ``across-the-board'' freeze would ``freeze in some outrageous waste'' in spending programs
the vice president said he is best suited to carry on reagan's economic and foreign policy legacy, and asked voters help him follow up the new hampshire victory with a strong showing on march 8
while bush continued his grass-roots style of campaigning, making an unscheduled stop at a truck stop in rural missouri, his chief spokesman, pete teeley, said the vice president's campaign aides feel bush is well positioned to make a strong showing in the next series of primaries
bush sought to capitalize on reagan's relative popularity in the south and border states, saying ``the president and i'' have brought economic prosperity to the country. bush did say, however, that some areas of the country missed out on the benefits of the recovery from the 1981-82 recession, and said he planned to do something about that if elected
on his bitter battle with dole, bush said he did not want to get into any direct confrontations with the kansas republican
i don't respond to bob dole. i'm trying to stay on the issues.''
asked in a local television interview whether he would continue to run negative commercials against dole, bush replied, ``he (dole) called them comparative ads when they were all about me.''
asked if he would support dole if the kansan won the nomination, bush said,``i'd vote for him over any democrat and i expect he'd vote for me over any democrat.''
bush said ``the next focused event, with the entire nation's focus, will be south carolina'' which holds its presidential primary on tuesday. and teeley said that bush will not try to compete in minnesota, which also holds its presidential contest next week
addressing a large crowd in the atrium of the loews anatole hotel here, bush said ``there is no way you can become president of the united states by not doing well, if not winning, on super tuesday. i intend to win.''
bush would seek to bring about a balanced budget by fiscal 1993 by limiting the growth in expenditures to a growth in u.s. treasury receipts ranging from 5 percent to 8 percent, and a 4 percent annual rate of inflation
the question is, who is best qualified to get this deficit down,'' he said
democrat albert gore jr., hoping to set himself apart from his rivals, accused richard gephart of flip-flopping on issues and michael dukakis of foreign policy inexperience in a combative debate gore said signals the ``beginning of the main event'' in their presidential race
gephardt and dukakis, who are battling the tennessee senator in the delegate-rich primaries across the south less than three weeks away, came under attack almost immediately thursday night and countered in a series of testy exchanges
it's quite natural he would launch an attack,'' gephardt, the missouri congressman, said afterward. ``he probably thinks i'm ahead in the south and he's got to jump start his campaign to have a chance.''
with jesse jackson and gary hart included, the five candidates debated for two hours in a televised session with a heavy focus on the south _ the major battleground of both parties' nomination fights before the march 8 super tuesday primaries. one candidate, paul simon, bypassed the event to concentrate on minnesota and south dakota, which have earlier contests
a similar debate was scheduled tonight for the four remaining republican candidates
but it was placed in jeopardy when bob dole withdrew thursday saying he feared it would become a pep rally for vice president george bush, and pat robertson followed suit. that left only jack kemp to debate bush, and sponsors said they hoped it would still go on _ with empty chairs on the stage for the absent contenders
the democratic debate contained what were some of the most pointed exchanges among the candidates, most of whom have met each other in more than 20 debates over the past year
gore came out swinging immediately, using the first question to charge that dukakis, the massachusetts governor, was without foreign policy experience and had said in a recent televised interview that he was willing to tolerate a ``soviet client state'' in nicaragua
i'm not going to sit here and listen to that,'' dukakis shot back, denying he said or believed such a statement. ``if you're going to be president of the united states you better be accurate.''
gore turned to gephardt moments later, saying his calls for tough trade policies would invite a trade war and cost american jobs. but it was his accusations that the missouri congressman had shifted positions on a range of issues from reaganomics to abortion that drew a sharp rebuttal
when you make a lecture on consistency, maybe you better take a look at your own record first,'' gephardt said
in a reference to the recently withdrawn gop candidate, he added, ``lately you've been sounding more like al haig than al gore.'' gore responded: ``that line sounds more like richard nixon than richard gephardt.''
gore clearly came into the debate eager to use it as an opportunity to battle the two contenders he views as his chief opponents, while leaving hart and jackson relatively untouched
gore defended his strategy in talking with reporters later, saying consistency ``is a legitimate issue'' and the race had now moved into his territory
dukakis and gephardt are the two winners so far in the 1988 democratic nomination race, dukakis winning in new hampshire earlier this week and gephardt winning iowa's caucuses the week before
turning to gephardt, gore served warning, saying, ``i'm going to lay it on the line now dick,'' and then accused him of voting in congress against increases in the minimum wage, against a department of education and for tuition tax credits. in each case, he said, gephardt has taken different positions now
you voted for reaganomics; now you say, well, where are you this week on reaganomics?'' gore said
gephardt has acknowledged changing positions on some key issues, saying time and circumstances have changed. meeting with reporters after the debate, he said: ``all of us in public life should try to re-examine issues. that's what i've tried to do.''
dukakis and gephardt tangled amongst themselves some too. dukakis said the democratic rivals were surprised gephardt had said in new hampshire he was proud to have voted for president reagan's tax-cut bill ``when he'd said all over iowa he was against it and only voted for it as a last resort.''
the sharp exchanges left hart and jackson out of the spotlight much of the time. hart at one point said he was not withdrawing from the presidential race despite critics who said he should
hart said that with bruce babbitt's withdrawal from the race, hart was the only candidate left who had laid out his plans for a federal budget. ``men, when are you going to produce your budgets?'' he asked
jackson, who has a strong following among black voters in the south and leads in polls of some southern states, drew one of the loudest rounds of applause when he said the united states is making products that consumers don't want
at another point, stressing the need for government to help poor children and welfare mothers, jackson said he was ``a graduate'' of the nation's underclass
americans will spend nearly $13 billion this year treating and caring for victims of strokes, the nation's third-leading cause of death, according to new statistics
stroke remains an extremely expensive disease, even though the stroke death rate has fallen sharply in recent years
stroke victims are often left paralyzed or disabled. the american heart association, which released the latest figures thursday, noted that about a third of all stroke survivors need help caring for themselves
strokes are exceeded only by heart disease and cancer as a cause of death in the united states
in 1985, the last year for which statistics are available, about 500,000 americas suffered strokes, and 152,700 of them died
however, notes dr. philip a. wolf of boston university medical school, ``the death rate is falling very dramatically.''
for the past four decades, the death rate from stroke has been dropping by about 1 percent a year. but since 1973, that decline has averaged 5.7 percent a year
no one knows precisely why stroke deaths are becoming less common. however, the risk of heart attacks is also going down, and many experts believe the same factors are involved in curbing both diseases
a lot of people think the control of blood pressure, changes in lifestyles, changes in diet, more exercise and more health consciousness are affecting vascular (blood vessel) disease in general,'' said dr. louis r. caplan of tufts medical school in boston, who is chairman of the heart association's stroke council
wolf, who also is an epidemiologist at the long-running framingham heart study, said that control of blood pressure appears to be the single most important of these factors
he said that when even mildly elevated blood pressure is brought down through drugs and behavior changes, the risk of stroke is cut in half
this year, the heart association estimates that $9.2 billion will be spent on hospital and nursing home care alone for stroke victims, who often are left partially paralyzed. when doctor and nurse bills, medicine and lost productivity are added, the total annual cost of strokes in 1988 will be an estimated $12.9 billion
a stroke occurs when the blood supply in the brain is disrupted. often a blood clot chokes off an artery, starving brain cells of oxygen. strokes also occur when blood vessels burst and flood brain tissue with blood
traditionally, doctors have been able to do little for patients except send them to hospitals, where they are taught to live with their disabilities. however, caplan said, that is beginning to change
a lot of us are hoping that new technology, used in patients who are diagnosed correctly, may do a lot to help patients get better,'' he said in an interview
caplan said new diagnostic machines are becoming available that can help doctors pinpoint precisely where inside the head the blood vessels are in danger of clogging or breaking. then strokes may be prevented with surgery or treatment
doctors also are experimenting with drugs that may minimize the damage of strokes once they occur
most people have treated stroke casually,'' said caplan. ``they say there's nothing you can do but rehabilitate the patient. the excitement is that we are starting to have the technology and ability to do something.''
amtrack said delays were likely on its passenger trains running from new york to richmond, va., and other points south until crews could clear tracks of derailed cars from a 78-car freight train
twelve cars from the train jumped the tracks thursday evening, forcing the evacuation of two office buildings and five homes but causing no injuries, authorities said. amtrak uses the same track
lt. michael reilly of the fairfax county fire department said the richmond, fredericksburg &amp; potomac train, traveling from richmond to alexandria, derailed around 7:10 p.m. some of the cars careened into seven empty freight cars parked on adjacent tracks
ten of the cars contained industrial equipment, while two tank cars were carrying soybean oil, reilly said
two office buildings located about a mile from the crash scene and five nearby homes were evacuated as a safety precaution, reilly said
the 19 people forced from homes and offices were allowed to return around 9 p.m., after officials confirmed the derailed cars contained no hazardous materials
passengers planning to travel on amtrak between richmond and new york were to be bused between richmond and washington, d.c., where they could continue north on amtrak, said marci larson, operations manager for amtrak. in addition, larson said, trains traveling from new york to florida and georgia would be rerouted to southern railway tracks between washington and richmond. 02-19 0382</first>
here, at a glance, is an overview of the proposed budget for fiscal year 1989 that president reagan submitted to congress:
_spending is projected at $1.09 trillion, up from $1.05 trillion in 1988
_receipts are estimated at $964.7 billion, $55.5 billion more than in 1988. income taxes provide 55 percent of receipts, followed by 36.8 percent from social insurance taxes
_the budget would reduce the federal deficit from an estimated $146.7 billion in 1988 to $129.5 billion in the fiscal year that begins next oct. 1. that's below the target of $136 billion called for in the gramm-rudman deficit-reduction law
_military spending would be $294 billion, up from $285.4 billion in 1988, but the smallest military spending increase reagan has ever sent to congress. the 3 percent increase is less than needed to keep pace with inflation, projected at 4.3 percent this year
_the plan calls for nearly $2 billion in spending authority to combat acquired immune deficiency syndrome, a 38 percent increase over 1988 levels
_education spending would rise 8 percent, or $1.5 billion. the biggest gain would be in the pell grant program for needy college students
_about $10.9 billion is included for space programs, with almost $1 billion of that going to the start of construction of a manned space station and another $1 billion for the space shuttle
_about $363 million for the start of construction of the superconducting super collider, a machine designed to study the nature of matter
_about $1.6 billion is earmarked for upgrading the nation's air traffic control system
_included is a request for $437 million, more than double last year's budget, for federal prison construction to relieve overcrowding
_the plan renews a number of previous administration proposals for reducing government programs, including abolition of the interstate commerce commission, the economic development administration, small business administration direct loans, urban development action grants and public subsidies for amtrak rail passenger service and mass transit systems
_the budget suggsts ``possible privatization'' of some postal service operations and the government's uranium enrichment facilities
_dropped were some of the more politically controversial proposals of past reagan budgets, including abolition of the legal services corp
the american cancer society has broken ground for a new headquarters next to emory university and across the street from the headquarters of the federal centers for disease control
i'm hopeful that this headquarters will be successful,'' gov. joe frank harris said at groundbreaking ceremonies thursday
harris said he would like to see the new building ``phased out of existence (someday) ... because a total cure for cancer has been found and announced here.''
the cancer society has had its headquarters in new york city the last 75 years. it hopes to move next january to the $12 million, six-floor building. the society estimated that 125 or more of its 300-person staff will make the move south
we are now moving at top speed into the future, toward advancements that would have seemed like science-fiction fantasies a few years ago,'' said dr. harmon j. eyre, a salt lake city oncologist and president of the cancer society. ``amazing and wonderful things will happen at this place.''
the cancer society, the world's largest volunteer health agency, said it wanted to escape high operating costs in new york
emory sold the four-acre site to the society for $1 million. the college had purchased the tract, worth $2.5 million, with assistance from a foundation, and wanted to add the society's headquarters to a growing cluster of health and science centers near its campus
douglas edwards, walter cronkite's predecessor and the nation's first nightly television news anchor, is retiring april 1 after 46 years with cbs
edwards, who covered world war ii on radio with the legendary edward r. murrow, says he's ``a little sad, but exhilirated'' about retirement
i've had a daily tv news report without a break since april 15, 1948, which is a record, almost 40 years now,'' edwards said thursday. he laughed and added: ``that and a dollar will get you a ride on the subway.''
he's been solid and accurate and straightforward and reliable through the years,'' said mike wallace, who worked with edwards on radio nearly 50 years ago, before the two met again at cbs. ``he has not been flashy, and he has not been sensational, he's been solid.''
in 1948, then-cbs president frank stanton tapped edwards to anchor ``doug edwards and the news.'' after 14 years in the job, he was succeeded by cronkite on the ``cbs evening news.''
edwards, 70, still does the network newsbreaks and a weekly show, ``for our times,'' as well as regular radio broadcasts
doug edwards has been a friend and a mentor since before i joined cbs news,'' said dan rather, only the third tv news anchor in the network's history. ``he's a giant in our craft, and all of us in television and radio news are indebted to him.''
his name has been synonymous with cbs news since the dawn of television,'' said cbs news president howard stringer. ``doug will be sorely missed, his accomplishments long treasured.''
edwards already had 10 years of broadcast experience when he joined cbs radio in 1942 at age 25. he joined murrow's staff in london in the final months of world war ii. afterwards, he became paris bureau chief. a interview on the local new york cbs station about his foreign coverage impressed cbs executives
they seemed to like the way i conducted myself in front of the camera, and they asked me afterwards if i'd like to do some television news,'' edwards said. he started by doing the thursday and saturday news shows
he was tapped for the news show after his participation with murrow and quincy howe in cbs' acclaimed radio coverage of the 1948 presidential conventions
we did very well, the three of us on those conventions,'' edwards recalled. ``afterward, cbs asked me to go into television, and i did it with some fear and trepidation and trembling, not because i was nervous about being on television, i had done quite a bit of it, but radio was the power, and i was pretty young at the time.''
in the beginning, the cbs network consisted of a half-dozen eastern cities. ``almost every other night, i'd welcome a new tv station that got hooked up,'' edwards said. ``until one night, in 1951 or 1952, i said, `good evening, everybody, coast to coast.'''
nbc had ``camel news caravan'' with john cameron swayze in 1949. abc launched a nightly news show in 1951 anchored by john daly, a former cbs correspondent
edwards began his broadcasting career at the tender age of 15 on a radio station in troy, ala
after high school, he landed a job with radio station wxyz in detroit, home of such popular radio serials as ``the lone ranger'' and ``the green hornet.'' he worked with another up-and-coming newsman, mike wallace
we were both cunningham news aces back in 1940-41,'' wallace recalled in a telephone interview from atlanta, where he was working on a segment for cbs' ``60 minutes.'' ``then he left to go to wsb in atlanta, where i am at this moment
cunningham was a drug chain, and they used to sponsor newscasts, and they used to have the sound of a p-38 (fighter plane) or whatever zooming and, `the cunningham news aces are on the air!' _ doug and me.''
edwards said he and his wife, may, plan to move to sarasota, fla., where he will continue lecturing on broadcast journalism and begin work on an autobiography
a federal judge is considering whether to issue an injunction blocking proposed regulations that would prohibit some 4,000 federally funded family planning clinics nationwide from offering abortion counseling services
if i were to grant an injunction, why should i not enjoin (health and human services secretary otis r. bowen) from enforcing these regulations anywhere in this country?'' u.s. district judge walter skinner said at the end of a two-hour hearing thursday
the hhs regulations, which take effect march 3, are being contested in u.s. district courts in colorado, new york and massachusetts
a federal judge in denver this week granted a preliminary injunction in the suit filed there, but the ruling apparently will only temporarily block the regulations from affecting clinics in colorado and utah
skinner, however, told attorneys thursday that he believed a single federal district court could hold ``national jurisdiction'' and issue one broad opinion that could end ``this business of raising the same issue in 92 districts.''
the judge gave no indication when he would release his decision on the injunction sought by the state of massachusetts, the national family planning and reproductive health association and 13 other local and national family planning groups
but attorneys speculated skinner would rule soon since an injunction request was scheduled to be argued late today in new york
unlike the denver judge, who partially based her ruling on the regulations' impact on physicians' relationships to their patients, skinner said, ``medical ethics is not my problem.''
he said the issue was whether the regulations were constitutional
congressional intent in establishing the family planning program under title x of the public health service act in 1970 was at the heart of thursday's arguments
skinner said, ``nothing is clear when it comes to congressional intent.''
thomas millet, a justice department attorney representing the health and human services agency, contended that the law bans the use of federal funds in ``programs where abortion is a method of family planning.''
assistant massachusetts attorney general paul glickman and james feldesman, attorney for the family planning association, argued that congress was fully aware abortion counseling was being provided through title x programs through eight budgetary reauthorizations over the years
administrative agencies can't change (law) by fiat,'' glickman argued, contending hhs did that when it proposed the regulations after reagan administration attempts to change title x through congressional action failed
while federal law already prohibits spending federal funds on abortion, the new rules say federally funded family planning programs may not provide abortion counseling, may not refer women to abortion providers and may not engage in lobbying or legal action to increase availability of abortion
in addition, the new guidelines would require any clinics now providing those abortion services to separate them entirely from their federally supported operations by april
the title x budget for fiscal 1988 is $137 million, down from $142 million in fiscal 1987. an estimated 5 million poor women receive services from the program
representatives of five republican presidential contenders have filed petitions for national convention delegates and alternates who will be chosen on ohio's may 3 primary ballot
marvin bush, the 31-year-old son of vice president george bush, filed his father's documents on thursday, shortly before representatives of bob dole gave the kansas senator's petitions to secretary of state sherrod brown
steven fought, brown's communications director, said petitions were filed later on behalf of former television evangelist pat robertson, former gov. pete du pont of delaware, and new york rep. jack kemp. the filing deadline was 4 p.m. thursday
du pont withdrew from presidential race on thursday
kansas republicans gather at five sites saturday to elect 15 delegates to the party's national convention and recommend five more for ratification at the state convention in topeka on march 5
all 20 people elected saturday will be committed to sen. bob dole in his bid for the gop presidential nomination, which will be decided at the national convention in new orleans in august
dole's supporters overwhelmingly control all five congressional district conventions and the state convention, thanks to his near-sweep of local delegates elected at county caucuses feb. 1-7
only pat robertson claimed any delegates among the other gop contenders in the county caucuses, and he won just six out of 1,249 elected at the local level. nobody else can vote at the district and state conventions
minnesota's republican presidential forum scheduled for sunday has been canceled because organizers could not get national front-runners george bush and bob dole to confirm they would attend
project chairman john r. finnegan, senior vice president and assistant publisher of the st. paul pioneer press dispatch, said thursday that despite epeated efforts, organizers had been unable to obtain confirmation from the vice president or the kansas senator
rep. jack kemp of new york, former television evangelist pat robertson and former minnesota gov. harold stassen had agreed to attend, as had former delaware gov. pete du pont. du pont, however, withdrew from the presidential race thursday
former democratic gov. harvey wollman is endorsing presidential hopeful richard gephardt, saying the missouri congressman is ``one candidate running who can add and subtract.''
wollman told about 100 people at the bergeland center for seniors on thursday that ``that's more than you can say for ronald reagan. he just knows how to add things up.''
wednesday, sen. tom daschle, d-s.d., endorsed gephardt
wollman said he supports gephardt because the congressman is from rural america and has the common sense and knowledge to straighten out problems in the united states. wollman served as governor in 1978, lieutenant governor from 1974-1978 and now farms near huron
ted thoms, co-chairman of bruce babbitt's campaign, said thursday he was transferring his allegiance to gephardt now that babbitt has left the presidential race
democratic presidential candidate jesse jackson's campaign expects endorsements sunday from the city's two most prominent politicians: rep. william h. gray iii and mayor w. wilson goode
philadelphia councilman lucien blackwell, jackson's pennsylvania campaign chairman, said thursday that jackson also will be endorsed at a fund-raising luncheon in philadelphia by mayor melvin r. ``randy'' primas jr. of camden, n.j
gray, goode and primas _ like jackson _ are black, and blackwell said it is important for jackson to get the support of black politicians while also seeking the support of other leaders
i think it's important because if you can't get support at home, i don't think you can solicit support abroad,'' blackwell said. ``it's important to have all support, but most importantly, people who are close to him.''
the federal trade commission has been asked to investigate its staff's review of a proposed takeover of federated department stores inc. and report back to a congressional panel next week
testimony by the ftc before the house energy and commerce transportation subcommittee on thursday was cut short after the commissioners said they were not familiar with the details of the review
subcommittee chairman rep. thomas luken, d-ohio, dismissed the commissioners after several unsuccessful attempts to question them on why the agency decided not to pursue a further, more extensive investigation into potential anticompetitive effects of the merger between the cincinnati-based federated and campeau corp. of canada
ftc chairman daniel oliver said the agency's bureau of competition spent 250 hours reviewing the merger and ``i have confidence in the bureau director.''
two baltimore men who oppose u.s. aid to the nicaraguan contra rebels were to be arraigned today on charges of unlawful entry after they refused to leave the capitol hill office of rep. lee hamilton, authorities said
michael bardoff, 30, and kevin hornbuckle, 25, were arrested at 7 p.m. thursday and charged with unlawful entry at the indiana democrat's office, said u.s. capitol police officer dan nichols
bardoff was detained overnight in the district of columbia jail after a bond hearing, while hornbuckle was released on his own recognizance, nichols said. both were scheduled for arraignment today in superior court
the two had entered hamilton's office at 2:30 p.m. and had vowed to remain there ``until they received assurances that contra aid would not go through the cia,'' said richard ochs, a spokesman for the baltimore emergency response network, a group that opposes contra aid
a senate sucommittee plans to hear from filmmakers steven spielberg and george lucas next month as it considers expanding the nation's copyright laws to prevent the controversial coloring of black-and-white films
the directors guild of america said thursday that spielberg and lucas, who between them have made some of the world's biggest moneymaking movies, will testify march 3 before the senate judiciary subcommittee on patents, copyrights and trademarks in favor of legislation giving directors the ``moral rights'' over changes in their completed works
spielberg, who opposes the coloring of old films, said in a statement thursday: ``moral rights are essential to protect future generations from the kind of big business greed that doesn't care about the desecration of timeless treasures.''
president reagan called to console the family of marine lt. col. william r. higgins, stung by the double blow of higgins' abduction in lebanon and the death of his father a day later
the president telephoned the colonel's wife this afternoon and offered all the support he knew how to give her ... i think it helped her tremendously,'' harold fisher, higgins' brother-in-law, said thursday
fisher, noting that eight other americans are being held in lebanon, said, ``one of the hardest parts is seeing how they are held captive, with no resolution in sight. being the ninth, you just don't know.''
the family learned of higgins' kidnapping by islamic revolutionaries wednesday when they telephoned his wife, marine maj. robin higgins, who works in the pentagon's public affairs office, with news of the elder higgins' imminent death
william f. higgins, 72, died from cardiopulmonary arrest and kidney failure thursday morning without knowing of his son's ordeal. the last time father and son saw each other was in september 1987, when higgins came home on emergency leave from the middle east
he never knew that his son had been taken captive. it was a blessing that he didn't know,'' fisher told a news conference. fisher is married to higgins' sister, mary, who did not attend the news conference
fisher said the family was doing well, considering the ordeal
it's difficult to accept the death of a father and then at the same time something that's so unknown as what's really taking place'' with the lieutenant colonel
fisher said the family was happy that higgins had chosen to serve his country as a united nations observer. ``we have confidence that our government will do what is best and necessary for our country and for his safety,'' he said
higgins, 43, was abducted as he returned from a meeting in tyre with officials of lebanese justice minister nabih berri's shiite amal militia to discuss efforts to free foreign hostages in lebanon
it could be two days, two years or never. it's a sad situation,'' fisher said of prospects for higgins' release
he said, however, that higgins ``will handle the situation better than most people because of the training he has had. he is a very strong individual.''
fisher said the military had also been in touch with the family and ``given us some telephone numbers to call for information. we are comfortable with the arrangements they have provided.''
president-elect roh tae-woo unveiled a new cabinet today in which several key posts went to hardliners and holdovers from the old government. widespread hopes for major changes were unfulfilled
roh, who takes office feb. 25, has pledged to end south korea's long tradition of authoritarian rule and restore full democracy
but cabinet security posts went to hardliners. technocrats, civil servants and academics took most other posts
the naming of the 23-member cabinet was closely watched for evidence roh would follow through on promises for sweeping reforms. many of the new ministers are politically unknown
political observers said the new cabinet was little different from the one it will replace and does not appear to contain independents or reformers
roh stressed the need for stability in making the appointments, saying the government had to ensure political and economic calm. he also underlined the need to guarantee the success of the 1988 olympic games, which are scheduled for september in seoul
i call on you new ministers to make maximum efforts to turn the nation into an advanced country by enhancing the people's capability and integrating national strength,'' roh told them
opposition parties charged that roh is determined to continue the authoritarian rule of outgoing president chun doo-hwan
despite much talk, the new cabinet falls far short of expectations,'' said an opposition statement
however, the main opposition reunification democratic party and the party for peace and democracy had rejected roh's invitation to nominate candidates for the cabinet, saying they doubted roh's ability to bring about reform
roh retained seven ministers from the chun government, including those holding the key posts of foreign affairs, home affairs and justice
home minister lee sang-hee heads the police and justice minister chung hae-chang supervised recent crackdowns on political dissidents. the foreign minister is choi kwang-soo
new defense minister oh ja-bok, a recently retired general and armed forces commander, is a hardliner who has attacked opposition parties in the past
oh is expected to be roh's link to the powerful military, which has long dominated the country. he supported chun and roh and other young generals who took power in 1980 with military backing
ahn moo-hyuk was retained as head of south korea's powerful intelligence agency, the agency for national security planning. the director works with the cabinet, but is not a member
roh had pledged to increase substantially the power of the cabinet as part of his promises to usher in full democracy. traditionally, ministers have had little power, with most decisions being made by the presidency
the appointment feb. 11 of noted moderate lee hyun-jae as prime minister had spurred hope the new cabinet would include people with new outlooks
roh said the new government would seek to end the political, regional and social divisions that have long troubled south korea
the new government should stand in the vanguard to create conditions under which the entire people would be willing to participate,'' he said
roh won the presidential elections on dec. 16 with 36.7 percent of the vote. chun had agreed to elections after huge protests for democractic government last summer
roh, saying he is determined to maintain the country's rapid economic growth and massive exports drive, held over some key economic experts, including finance minister sakong il
outgoing trade minister rha woong-bae was promoted to the joint post of deputy prime minister and economic planning minister
business and trade groups applauded the makeup of the cabinet, saying it would help to bolster economic growth while stabilizing prices and other economic factors. allegations</head>
the government asked the u.s. ambassador for the names of u.s. officials who were the sources for a newspaper report alleging links between the honduran military and colombian drug traffickers
foreign minister carlos lopez contreras said in a statement thursday that the government also wants the names of members of the honduran military who were accused of involvement in the narcotics trade and details of the illegal acts they purportedly committed
notwithstanding the seriousness of the charges formulated (against honduras), for the moment what most displeases and disturbs my government is that these are attributed to (high-level u.s. officials),'' lopez contreras said
he said that if the names were not forthcoming, ``then we await the satisfactions (consequences) that the case warrants.'' he did not elaborate
this is not the appropriate moment to get into analyzing the truthfulness or falseness of the charges provided by anonymous but identifiable sources,'' the statement said
a story in the new york times last week quoted unidentified u.s. and honduran officials as saying honduras was in danger of being overrun by colombian drug dealers
the newspaper reported the sources as saying narcotics traffickers had corrupted honduran army officers, offered money to political parties and bought businesses and land to launder drug profits
the honduran military denied the charges and demanded that the government of president jose azcona hoyo file lawsuits against newspapers that report such accounts
both azcona hoyo and u.s. ambassador everett briggs held news conferences on tuesday at which they called the reports untrue
briggs said the stories were ``very imaginative and inventive.''
i am the principal and highest official of the united states in honduras and i totally disavow this situation that has appeared in the newspapers of my country,'' briggs said
prices were mostly lower on the london stock exchange early today
the financial times-stock exchange 100-share index opened 4 points, or 0.23 percent, lower at 1,732.1
by 9:45 a.m. the index was only slightly changed at 1,732.5, down 3.6 from thursday's close
forty-five of the ft-se 100 issues were down, 10 up and the remainder unchanged in early trading today
brokers attributed the lower trend to wall street's decline thursday
about 5,000 people evacuated after a toxic chemical leak tainted the sandusky river were permitted to return to their homes today after fumes dissipated, the mayor said
a water emergency remained in effect in this northwestern ohio city of 22,000 after an estimated 100,000 gallons of flammable toluene spilled wednesday from a ruptured sun co. pipeline south of here
reserve tanks which hold about 4 million gallons of water were expected to last until late this afternoon, mayor fred singer said
at least three people were treated for injuries after an undetermined amount of the chemical flowed into the river, and as many as 5,000 residents were evacuated wednesday and thursday because of the fumes, officials said
toluene can produce irritating or poisonous gases, according to an emergency response guidebook published by the u.s. department of transportation
city and u.s. environmental protection agency officials assessed the air quality during the night
we just returned with federal epa people and have monitored the situation, and we are satisfied that it will be safe for the people to return to the evacuated areas,'' singer said early this morning
gov. richard celeste on thursday declared a state of emergency for sandusky county, which includes fremont. the declaration makes state assistance available
the toluene was detected wednesday night from a sun co. pipeline near tiffin, about 20 miles upstream from fremont
bob arnet, an environmental safety coordinator for the tulsa, okla.-based sun pipe line, said thursday that authorities had turned off the pipeline, but had not located the leak
the city stopped taking in water from the river before the spill reached fremont late thursday, officials said. they estimated a 14-mile section of the river was contaminated
under the water emergency, industries are prohibited from using water, and residents are urged to conserve
singer said city officials were considering having the national guard truck in water from clyde, about 10 miles southeast of fremont
epa officials said they believed much of the chemical would dissipate by the time it reaches lake erie
singer criticized sun officials for not notifying fremont officials of the spill until thursday, and said the city will seek reimbursement from the company for expenses incurred
it's real interesting. no one contacted us until 5 p.m., and the chemical is dangerous and highly combustible,'' singer said. ``they acted very irresponsibly.''
sun spokesman bud davis, said the company would take ``liability and responsibility for the leak'' and cleanup, which could cost as much as $1 million and take three to four months
two fremont residents on thursday filed a class-action lawsuit in u.s. district court in toledo against the sun pipe line co
joe albrechta, an attorney for lupe avalos and barry halstead, said no specific dollar amount was named in the suit, which seeks compensation for lost wages, property damage and damages for emotional stress created by the incident
the spill occurred in a swampy area in seneca county, south of fremont, and then leaked into sugar creek, a tributary of the sandusky river, said sonya elam, a spokeswoman for the ohio disaster services agency. the sandusky river flows north into lake erie
two emergency workers were treated at tiffin mercy hospital after they fell through ice and into contaminated water, and a volunteer firefighter was treated after inhaling the fumes. all were subsequently released
ohio epa spokesman allan franks said at least 100 dead fish were visible in the river. he said officials suspect there may be 1,000 dead fish under the ice
heavy rain spread across the south today, touching off high-water alerts, while snow was widely scattered in the plains and west and southern california had high winds
a drenching rain fell in northern florida. rain spread across alabama, georgia and south carolina, and prompted flood warnings in sections of southeast louisiana. flash flood watches were issued in sections of southeast mississippi, southern and central alabama and the florida panhandle
a narrow band of rain and snow extended from northeast oklahoma across southeast kansas and west central missouri
rain and mountain snow dotted eastern arizona and western new mexico
strong winds developed across much of southern california. high wind warnings were posted for much of the region warning of gusts of 60 to 70 mph
today's forecast called for rain widespread from the middle mississippi valley across the tennessee and ohio valleys into the mid-atlantic states and carolinas; showers and thunderstorms from the central gulf coast across georgia and northern florida; snow over southwest michigan and northern sections of illinois and indiana; and rain and mountain snow showers across southeast arizona and southern new mexico
highs were expected to be in the 30s from the dakotas across the upper mississippi valley to the great lakes and across portions of illinois, indiana, northern maine and the central rockies; 60s and 70s over california, southwest arizona, south texas, the central gulf coast region, northern florida, southern georgia and coastal south carolina; 80s in central and southern florida; and 40s to 50s across most of the rest of the nation
temperatures around the nation at 2 a.m. est ranged from zero at craig, colo., to 74 degrees at key west, fla
other reports:
_east: atlanta 44 rain; boston 32 fair; buffalo 25 fair; charleston, s.c., 51 rain; cincinnati 41 rain; cleveland 26 cloudy; miami 73 partly cloudy; new york 30 fair; philadelphia 30 fair; pittsburgh 36 cloudy; portland 21 fair; washington 41 cloudy
_central: bismarck 32 cloudy; chicago 28 fair; dallas-fort worth 42 cloudy; denver 23 fair; des moines 29 fair; indianapolis 36 rain; kansas city 34 cloudy; minneapolis-st. paul 28 fair; nashville 51 rain; new orleans 59 cloudy; st. louis 36 rain
_west: albuquerque 36 windy; anchorage 42 cloudy; las vegas 49 windy; los angeles 61 windy; phoenix 54 partly cloudy; salt lake city 28 fair; san francisco 56 fair; seattle 45 cloudy
_canada: montreal 23 fair; toronto 23 partly cloudy
every day, neighbors say, a retarded 13-year-old boy would go behind his house and play with a toy gun
silvielo grohse's youthful game turned into tragedy when two officers mistook his plaything for the real thing and fatally shot him
he was such a sweet boy,'' said steve diamond, the seventh-grader's teacher. ``he loved to be hugged. he would come up and put his head on your shoulder and just hug you.''
the youngster was shot wednesday by the officers after they ordered him to drop the weapon and he instead spun around toward them, police said thursday
the boy is retarded, and he played back here every day because it's not safe in front of the projects,'' said neighbor debra judkins. ``the cops should know better than to gun down a child.''
grohse was dead on arrival at san francisco general hospital, said dr. richard cales. the boy stood 5-foot-8 and weighed about 190 pounds
police spokesman jerry senkir said there was no evidence the officers, michael huddleston and janet campbell, acted improperly. he said grohse's toy gun resembled a .22-caliber revolver
according to senkir, the officers were answering a call of shots being fired in the drug-plagued area when they spotted the youth walking with the toy gun in his hand. they pulled within 40 feet of him, got out of their patrol car and crouched behind open doors with guns drawn, ordering the youth to drop his gun
the suspect then turned and pointed the gun at the officers,'' senkir said. ``at the same time, he crouched down and let out a yell. both officers immediately opened fire.''
the officers fired four shots from their .357-caliber magnum service revolvers, he said
weren't they supposed to give him a warning or something, like `freeze?''' asked grohse's 12-year-old cousin. ``couldn't they have shot in the air first instead of killing him?''
police union officials have called for community meetings between residents and police to defuse the tension surrounding the shooting
the u.s. dollar rose against major foreign currencies in europe early today in lackluster trading. gold prices fell
the dollar was underpinned by recent signs of u.s. economic expansion, said a trader in frankfurt, west germany
although the dollar shed some early gains, it was holding fairly steady in the absence of market-moving news, traders said
midmorning dollar rates in europe compared with rates late thursday:
_1.7080 west german marks, up from 1.7040
_1.4035 swiss francs, up from 1.4010
_5.7735 french francs, up from 5.7555
_1.9236 dutch guilders, up from 1.9130
_1,257.15 italian lire, up from 1,254.63
_1.2715 canadian dollars, up from 1.2690
the british pound fell to $1.7460 from $1.7508
the dollar closed in tokyo at 130.53 japanese yen, up from 130.00 yen on thursday. in later london trading today, the dollar was quoted at 130.35 yen
london's major bullion dealers fixed a recommended gold price at midmorning of $443.45 a troy ounce, down from $444 late thursday
the metal traded at a bid of $443.30 in zurich, down from $447.50
hong kong markets were closed for the chinese new year
silver bullion traded in london at a bid of $6.37 a troy ounce, down from $6.43
the developing countries, instead of becoming autonomous nations concerned with their own progress toward a just sharing in the goods and services meant for all, become parts of a machine, cogs on a giant wheel.'' _ pope john paul ii, calling for eliminating the east and west blocs, blaming them for a host of economic and social injustices
it's a little like lookingat a trojan horse. it's an attractive horse, but you've got to look on the inside.'' _ sen. lawton chiles, d-fla., as some lawmakers predicted skirmishes but not major fights over this year's budget
the constitution of the united states is the single idea, the single fact, the single reality, the single moral principle that sets the united states apart from other nations, now and throughout history. i shall honor that constitution.'' _ anthony m. kennedy, during a white house swearing-in ceremony to join the supreme court
a mild earthquake struck near the lawrence livermore national laboratories, but there were no reports of damage or injury
thursday's quake had a magnitude estimated at 3.3 on the richter scale, meaning it was capable of causing slight damage, said rick mckenzie, a staff research associate at the university of california seismographic stations at berkeley
the quake was centered about seven miles northeast of the laboratories, where research is conducted on nuclear weapons and the ``star wars'' defense system, said mckenzie. the lab is about 40 miles east of san francisco
every increase of one number on the open-ended richter scale means a tenfold increase in the strenth of the quake. a quake of magnitude 2 is the smallest normally felt by humans, while one of magnitude 8 can cause tremendous damage
the presidential campaign is out of control, said the executive editor of the associated press, placing part of the blame on the media
the candidates, some of whom have been campaigning for two years, can also accept blame for overexposure that has bored the voters, walter mears, ap vice president and executive editor, said thursday in a speech to the ohio newspaper association
they tend to neutralize each other ... and they tend to wear out their public welcome'' by the time the polls open, mears said. candidates have also ``debated themselves hoarse. there have been more than 30 debates so far, which may be why nobody is listening anymore.''
mears said there are too many reporters covering the race and too little substantive reporting
there were 3,000 reporters in new hampshire,'' he said. ``the numbers themselves are absurd.''
but the immediacy of television and the speed with which news is transmitted across the nation also has played a role
the gary hart story was in print before donna rice even got home,'' he said
mears covered presidential campaigns from 1960 through 1980 for the ap, and won a pulitzer prize for his reporting on the 1976 campaign
after losing a court battle for the right to publish an unauthorized biography of j.d. salinger, random house says it will publish ``a substantially new book'' about the reclusive author and the legal wrangling over the first book
the new book, ``in search of j.d. salinger'' by ian hamilton, is slated to arrive in bookstores in may. it will be both a biography of salinger, author of the 1951 novel ``the catcher in the rye,'' and tell the story of hamilton's unsuccessful effort in 1986 to publish ``j.d. salinger: a writing life.''
salinger, who rarely leaves his cornish, n.h., home and has given only one interview in 35 years, came to new york to give a deposition in the lawsuit against the first book. he claimed invasion of privacy and infringement of copyright because the planned biography reproduced some letters he wrote to his friends and editors between 1939 and 1961
the letters had been donated to libraries and were open to scholarly perusal
last october, after months of appeals, the u.s. supreme court let stand a lower court ruling barring publication of the biography unless the quotations from and paraphrases of salinger's letters were deleted. the court said the letters still belonged to salinger
jason epstein, the editor of the book, said, ``the original book essentially survives within the new book.''
gerald hollingsworth, random house's general counsel, said, ``i can't conceive of there being any well-founded legal problems with this book.''
dorothy olding, salinger's longtime literary agent, said she had expected random house to go ahead with another book and she planned to inform salinger's attorney. she said she was certain salinger would have no comment
in a statement issued by random house, hamilton said: ``the new version is a different sort of book altogether _ more of a literary adventure story with the biographer as a leading character. ... at the same time it raises key questions about the whole business of `biography' _ what is it for, why do we write it, why do people want to read it and so on.''
about 200 employees of the country's largest hotel went on strike after a room boy was fired for entering the room of a pretty japanese guest and kissing her, a hotel spokeswoman said today
the strikers, demanding the room boy be reinstated, had blocked the entrances of the posh, seaside, 673-room philippine plaza hotel since wednesday, said rosary ysmael, its public relations director
ysmael said that on jan. 17, raymundo lacanaria, 34, entered the room of the japanese woman, embraced and kissed her. the woman immediately reported the incident
management gave lacanaria a 15-day suspension after which he was terminated, ysmael said. union officials called the strike after the hotel refused to take back lancanaria, who is a union board member
ysmael said only 200 of the union's 700 members joined the strike
a reporter for the boston globe was ordered jailed for contempt of court after repeatedly refusing to reveal the identities of confidential sources cited in a 1982 story about a former city official
suffolk superior court judge john p. sullivan issued the order thursday but said he would allow charles a. radin to remain free for at least a week so he could appeal to a higher court
radin on thursday refused to answer 28 questions about the sources quoted in the story, citing first amendment protections of a free press and similar provisions of the state constitution
after sullivan issued his order thursday, e. susan garsh, an attorney for the globe and radin, appealed the contempt finding to the appeals court. no hearing date was set
in the april 1982 story, radin said richard j. sinnott, a former city licensing chief, had applied for a disability pension claiming emotional stress suffered while attending a licensing board meeting and two rock concerts
sinnott withdrew his application shortly after the globe detailed his request
sinnott then filed an invasion of privacy suit against several city officials, accusing them of violating his rights by releasing the contents of his application. neither radin nor the globe are defendants in the suit, but sinnott's attorneys want information about the sources to help them prepare for trial
regina l. quinlan, and attorney for sinnott, has argued that the right of sinnott and others to privacy outweighs any right radin or the newspaper might have to conceal the names of anonymous sources
a state appeals court judge earlier this month agreed and ordered radin to disclose his sources
a civil war-era cannonball that was a boon to a maryland museum might have become a boom if the museum manager had not been suspicious and called authorities, police said
the bomb squad from the maryland fire marshal's office was called to defuse the six-inch, rusty-brown cannonball, estimated to be about 120 years old, said bob thomas, a spokesman for the office
a clammer found the cannonball in his net in the potomac river. he turned it over to the st. clements island museum in southern maryland, thomas said
the museum, which collects state artifacts, displayed the cannonball until a museum manager, whose name was not released, ``became concerned that it was live,'' thomas said
the bomb squad determined the cannonball was indeed live, with its fuse intact and apparently containing explosive black powder ignitable by friction or a spark, thomas said
the bomb squad removed the cannonball and planned to defuse it and return the shell to the museum, thomas said. the cannonball would have been lethal had it exploded, he said
thomas did not know when the cannonball was found or how long it was displayed
two state legislators defiantly munched cookies in a capitol committee room to protest a policy banning food in the colorado house of representatives
the cookie rebellion was staged thursday by rep. bill owens and rep. danny williams. they ate while a photographer snapped pictures and their committee deliberated a firearms bill
excuse me,'' owens told a witness. ``we're being photographed breaking the law.''
besides prompting thursday's cookie revolt, the decision caused republicans to interrupt work on one of their busiest days to caucus for 30 minutes and discuss the subject. the matter will be taken up again today, legislators said
house speaker carl ``bev'' bledsoe proposed the controversial no-food policy after outside groups began offering legislators breakfast in the capitol before each morning's session. he said crumbs and debris from the meals had gotten out of hand
the house services committee, which decides such matters, inaugurated the ban tuesday in the house and in house committee rooms. the policy forced minority democrats to abandon their luncheon caucus that day and move it into the governor's office
rep. bonnie allison, a republican who opposes the ban, said committees frequently are in session during lunch. she said it is better to eat on the job than to leave the committee to eat ``while your constituents are not being represented.''
rep. carole taylor-little, another republican, said it improves mental health ``to have an ability to graze.''
doctors, accountants, and even embalmers in ohio are required to undergo continuing education. now lawyers are being added to the list
the ohio supreme court has adopted a rule requiring the state's 35,000 lawyers to complete 24 hours of legal education every two years, beginning in 1990
while we cannot quantify, we do know that many, many, many lawyers today expose themselves to more continuing education than this rule is going to require them to be exposed to in a two-year period,'' chief justice thomas moyer said in outlining the program thursday
joseph cook of akron, president of the ohio state bar association, said lawyers probably could meet the requirement by attending seminars sponsored by the state bar
the rule establishes, effective july 1, a 19-member supreme court commission to administer and accredit the program. it will be financed by a $15 filing fee
attorneys would have to receive 60 minutes of instruction or take part in another approved activity to receive a cedit hour. but they also could earn 10 credit hours for publication of an article or book, and up to five hours for approved self study over the two years
at least two of each 12 hours credit must be related to legal ethics and professional responsibility
lawyers who fail to comply with the requirements face reprimands that range from a late filing fee of up to $500 to a suspension from practice
the following are excerpts from the official english language text of pope john paul ii's encyclical ``sollicitudo rei socialis.`` the original was written in polish
 ...the social context in which we live today cannot be said to be completely identical to that of twenty years ago ....the first fact to note is that the hopes for development, at that time so lively, today appear very far from being realized ....one cannot deny that the present situation of the world, from the point of view of development, offers a rather negative impression ..
the first negative observation to make is the persistence and often the widening of the gap between the areas of the so-called developed north and the developing south ...in today's world among other rights, the right of economic initiative is often supressed ....this provokes a sense of frustration or desperation and predisposes people to opt out of national life, impelling many to emigrate and also favoring a form of `psychological' emigration ...it often happens that a nation is deprived of its subjectivity, that is to say the ``sovereignty'' which is its right ..
it must also be restated that no social group, for example, a political party, has the right to usurp the role of sole leader, since this brings about the destruction of the true subjectivity of society and of the individual citizens, as happens in every form of totalitarianism ..
the tension between the two blocs which began at the end of the second world war has dominated the whole of the subsequent forty years. sometimes it has taken the form of `cold war,' sometimes of `wars by proxy,' through the manipulation of local conflicts, and sometimes it has kept people's minds in suspense and anguish by the threat of an open and total war ..
although at the present time this danger seems to have receded, yet without completely disappearing, and even though an initial agreement has been reached on the destruction of one type of nuclear weapon, the existence and opposition of the blocs continue to be a real and worrying fact which still colors the world picture ..
the tension between east and west is not in itself an opposition between two different levels of development but rather between two concepts of the development of individuals and peoples, both concepts being imperfect and in need of radical correction. this opposition is transferred to the developing countries themselves, and thus helps to widen the gap already existing on the economic level between north and south ..
this is one of the reasons why the church's social doctrine adopts a critical attitude towards both liberal capitalism and marxist collectivism. for from the point of view of development the question naturally arises: in what way and to what extent are these two systems capable of changes and updatings such as to favor or promote a true and integral development of individuals and peoples in modern society? in fact, these changes and updatings are urgent and essential for the cause of a development common to all ..
we easily arrive at a clearer picture of the last twenty years and a better understanding of the conflicts in the northern hemisphere, namely between east and west, as an important cause of the retardation or stagnation of the south. the developing countries, instead of becoming autonomous nations concerned with their own progress toward a just sharing in the goods and services meant for all, become parts of a machine, cogs in a gigantic wheel ..
each of the two blocs harbors in its own way a tendency towards imperialism, as it is usually called, or toward forms of neo-colonialism: an easy temptation to which they frequently succumb, as history, including recent history, teaches ...it is this abnormal situation, the result of a war and of an unacceptably exaggerated concern for security, which deadens the impulse toward united cooperation by all for the common good of the human race, to the detriment especially of peaceful peoples who are impeded from their rightful access to the goods meant for all ...seen in this way, the present division of the world is a direct obstacle to the real transformation of the conditions of underdevelopment in the developing and less advanced countries ..
when the west gives the impression of abandoning itself to forms of growing and selfish isolation, and the east in its turn seems to ignore for questionable reasons its duty to cooperate in the task of alleviating human misery, then we are up against not only a betrayal of humanity's legitimate expectations _ a betrayal that is a harbinger of unforeseeable consequences _ but also a real desertion of a moral obligation ..
if arms production is a serious disorder in the present world with regard to true human needs and the employment of the means capable of satisfying those needs, the arms trade is equally to blame ....we are thus confronted with a strange phenomenon: while economic aid and development plans meet with the obstacle of insuperable ideological barriers, and with tariff and trade barriers, arms of whatever origin circulate with almost total freedom all over the world ..
to all this we add the tremendous and universally acknowledged danger represented by atomic weapons stockpiled on an incredible scale, the logical conclusion seems to be this: in today's world, including the world of economics, the prevailing picture is one destined to lead us more quickly toward death rather than one of the concern for true development ..
more
nor may we close our eyes to another painful wound in today's world: the phenomenon of terrorism, understood as the intention to kill people and destroy property indiscriminately, and to create a climate of terror and insecurity, often including the taking of hostages. even when some ideology or the desire to create a better society is adduced as the motivation for this inhuman behavior, acts of terrorism are never justifiable ..
it is very alarming to see governments in many countries launching systematic campaigns against birth, contrary not only to the cultural and religious identity of the countries themselves but also contrary to the nature of true development. it often happens that these campaigns are the result of pressure and financing coming from abroad, and in some cases they are made a condition for the granting of financial and economic aid and assistance. in any event, there is an absolute lack of respect for the freedom of choice of the parties involved, men and women often subjected to intolerable pressures, including economic ones, in order to force them to submit to this new form of oppression ..
also to be mentioned here, as a sign of respect for life _ despite all the temptations to destroy it by abortion and euthanasia _ is a concomitant concern for peace, together with an awareness that peace is indivisible. it is either for all or for none ..
side by side with the miseries of underdevelopment, themselves unacceptable, we find ourselves up against a form of superdevelopment ... which consists in an excessive availability of every kind of material goods for the benefit of certain social groups, easily makes people slaves of `possession' and of immediate gratification, with no other horizon than the multiplication or continual replacement ..
 ... one of the greatest injustices in the contemporary world consists precisely in this: that the ones who possess much are relatively few and those who possess almost nothing are many. it is the injustice of the poor distribution of the goods and services originally intended for all ..
surmounting every type of imperialism and determination to preserve their own hegemony, the stronger and richer nations must have a sense of moral responsibility for the other nations, so that a real international system may be established which will rest on the foundation of the equality of all peoples and on the necessary respect for their legitimate differences ... for world peace is inconceivable unless the world's leaders come to recognize that interdependence in itself demands the abandonment of the politics of blocs, the sacrafice of all forms of economic, military or political imperialism, and the transformation of mutual distrust into collaboration ..
the church does not have technical solutions to offer for the problem of underdewvelopment as such ... for the church does not propose economic and political systems or programs ... the church's social doctrine is not a `third way' between liberal capitalism and marxist collectivism, nor even a possible alternative to other solutions less radically opposed to one another: rather, it constitutes a category of its own ... therefore it belongs to the field, not of ideology, but of theology and particularly of moral theology ... it is necessary to state once more the characteristic principles of christian social doctrine: the goods of this world are originally meant for all. the right to private property is valid and necessary, but it does not nullify the value of this principle ..
i wish to mention speifically: the reform of the international trade system, which is morgaged to protectionism and increasing bilaterism; the reform of the world monetary and financial system, today recognized as inadequate; the question of technological exchanges and their proper use; the need for a review of the structure of the existing international organizations, in the framework of an international juridical order..the international trade system today frequently discriminates against the products of the young industries of the developing countries and discourages the producers of raw materials ... the world monetary and financial system is marked by an excessive fluctuation of exchange rates and interest rates to the detriment of the balance of payments and the debt situation of the poorer countries ..
forms of technology and their transfer constitute today one of the major problems of international exchange and of the grave damage deriving therefrom ..
in the opinion of many, the international organizations seem to be at a stage of their existence when their operating methods, operating costs and effectiveness need careful review and possible correction ...
development demands above all a spirit of initiative on the part of the countries that need it. each of them must act in accordance with its own responsibilties, not expecting everything from the more favored countries ... the developing nations themselves should favor the self-affirmation of each citizen, through access to a wider culture and a free flow of information . .. other nations need to reform certain unjust structures, and in particular their political institutions, in order to replace corrupt, dictatorial and authoritarian forms of government by democratic and participatory ones ..
development which is merely economic is incapable of setting man free; on the contrary, it will end up by enslaving him further. development that does not include the cultural, transcendent and religious dimensions of man and society, to the extent that it does not recognize the existence of such dimensions and does not endeavor to direct its goals and priorities toward the same, is even less conducive to authentic liberation ....'' details. no pickup.</note>
thai and laotian forces today began a truce in a disputed border area, and leaders separated troops who had fought bloody battles for 3{ months, thai officers said
after the cease-fire began at 8 a.m., two parallel rows of thai and laotian flags were put up to mark off a two-mile zone which soldiers are forbidden to cross, said the army chief of staff, gen. charuay wongsayant
thai and laotian military officials agreed to the cease-fire on wednesday, after two days of talks in bangkok. they decided to separate their soldiers within 48 hours of the start of the truce
hundreds of soldiers have died since fighting flared last november for sparsely populated hills between thailand's northern province of phitsanulok and laos' sayaboury province. each side claims that the area about 240 miles north of bangkok is in its territory
col. rithee rungkaputi, chief of the third army region's civilian affairs department, said there was a half-hour long skirmish in one of the contested hills an hour before the truce began. he said there were no casualties
he said the clash probably was due to a delay in communicating the cease-fire order to field troops
he also reported a heavy artillery exchange and two ground clashes on wednesday and thursday, when thai and laotian military teams were meeting in bangkok to work out the truce
thai foreign minister siddhi savetsila told reporters today that foreign ministry officials have been dispatched to paris to seek the french government's assistance in resolving the conflicting claims. the thais say a 1907 french-thai treaty shows the disputed area is inside thailand
meanhile, the official laotian news agency kpl today quoted maj. gen. thonglay kommasith, deputy head of the general political department of the laotian army, as saying the talks in bangkok had ``paved the way towards negotiations, a diplomatic channel to solve the lao-thai border problem.''
thonglay, who participated in the talks, spoke at a news conference in vientiane thursday, said the dispatch monitored in bangkok
the agreement calls for the two governments to hold talks within 15 days of the start of the truce to decide the location of the border
gen. chaovalit yongchaiyuth, the thai army commander, said he would be going to laos' capital of vientiane within two days at the invitation of gen. sisavat keobounphan, the chief of the laotian army general staff and chaovalit's counterpart at wednesday's talks
human rights violations have increased under president corazon aquino's administration and the united states shares responsibility, a leftist social action group charged today
meanwhile, suspected communist rebels ambushed and killed a police informant early today in manila's tondo district, a stronghold of urban guerrillas
petrolino lim suffered three gunshot wounds and died a few hours later in a hospital, police said
the philippine alliance of human rights advocates said it would file a petition with the u.n. commission on human rights in new york asking it to condemn the u.s. and aquino governments for ``gross and systematic violations of human rights of the filipino people.''
alvaro senturias, an alliance official, told a news conference that the petition would show that ``human rights violations have increased under the aquino government.''
the alliance distributed copies of the petition, which cited numerous specific allegations of abuses, including murder, the bombing of civilians and forced evacuation of villagers
most of the incidents stemmed from the government's effort to step up the war against communist rebels' 19-year-old insurgency _ employing armed vigilantes, for example, the group said
there was no immediate comment from the government, which came to power nearly two years ago on the promise of restoring human rights after 20 years of authoritarian rule under ousted president ferdinand marcos
the alliance, an umbrella group for several leading church-affiliated human rights groups, says in the petition that the united states ``has intensified its intervention in the counter-insurgency program.''
the aquino government has become more subservient to the dictation of the u.s. policy makers and counter-insurgency experts,'' it says
the alliance said that despite its stated commitment to human rights, the aquino government had made little effort to punish those in the military who had committed abuses under the marcos administration
the military has said that many of the church-affiliated groups that comprise the alliance are communist-infiltrated. it says they unfairly blame soldiers for abuses without criticizing similar actions by the rebel new people's army
mrs. aquino was swept to power in a february 1986 military-civilian uprising that toppled marcos, who lives in exile in hawaii
martha granger krock, a former newspaper society columnist, died thursday. she was 87
the widow of former new york times bureau chief arthur krock wrote a society column for the hearst newspapers in chicago in the early 1930s. after moving to washington in 1933 and before marrying krock in 1939, she wrote a column called ``these charming people'' for hearst's washington times-herald newspaper
during world war ii she headed the american women's volunteer services, was a volunteer with the american red cross and was decorated by belgium for her war relief work
her marriage to william mitchell blair of chicago ended in divorce. krock died in 1974
bob stivers, tv special producer of such shows as ``circus of the stars,'' ``celebrity daredevils'' and ``stars salute to the u.s. olympic team,'' died of cancer wednesday, a day before his 67th birthday
stivers created the 1969 celebrity contest show ``the movie game,'' featuring john wayne, bob hope, jimmy stewart, carol burnett and burt reynolds
the previous year he produced a nationwide talent search for nbc-tv, ``showcase '68,'' which introduced linda ronstadt to network television, as well as sly and the family stone and others. in 1975 he created ``the people's choice awards,'' now in its 14th year
stivers is survived by his wife, bunny; son robert jr., stepsons tom and larry hendel; and two granddaughters. pvs, when the. meeting scheduled 11:30 a.m. est; top planned.</note>
west german chancellor helmut kohl today said his visit to washington is primarily aimed at pressing for senate ratification of the intermediate-range nuclear forces treaty without any strings attached
i came here particularly to make it clear in the senate that the inf treaty should be ratified without any amendments,'' kohl said
i am very pleased and very happy that the day yesterday has made it very clear that there are no differences between the (reagan) administration and between us,'' he added in an interview on nbc-tv's ``today'' show
when the united states and the soviet union were negotiating the treaty, there was some opposition from officials in bonn worried it would leave the soviets with a military advantage
kohl erased doubts about west german support on thursday when he went to capitol hill and lobbied for speedy senate ratification of the pact, which would eliminate missiles with ranges between 300 and 3,000 miles
he put his wholehearted support behind the inf treaty, indubitably, unquestionably and without any reservation, saying that there should be no amendments to it,'' senate majority leader robert byrd, d-w.va., said after the private meeting
kohl's spokesman, friedhelm ost, confirmed byrd's account and said the chancellor told congress the treaty is necessary to maintain momentum in the drive for disarmament
kohl was due to meet with president reagan today with both military and money matters on the agenda
among those kohl saw on thursday was sen. jesse helms, r-n.c., who has argued against the treaty on grounds it will hurt european security. helms did not relent in his opposition to the pact, but said of kohl, ``he's the most impressive head of state that we've had in a long time. he gives detailed answers to every question.''
west germany is intensely active in efforts to shape u.s. arms control strategy because its location on the frontier with soviet bloc nations gives it special interests and special fears about military arrangements on both sides
kohl was the last western european leader to see secretary of state george p. shultz before the secretary's departure today for moscow and more arms control negotiations with the soviets
highest on shultz's arms control agenda is a u.s.-soviet effort to reach an agreement by a late spring summit in moscow to cut arsenals of intercontinental ballistic missiles and other strategic nuclear arms by 50 percent
nato has agreed the strategic arms talks are the first priority. but west german politicians, particularly the opposition social democrats, have sought more of an emphasis in negotiations on reducing short-range systems _ the type of weapons that could be used on german soil if a conventional war broke out and escalated quickly
officials in bonn also have been questioning how quickly nato should implement a 1983 decision to modernize its force of short-range nuclear weapons _ those with ranges below 300 miles
the germans are particularly concerned about deployment of a new generation of ground-launched rockets to replace nato's aged force of 75-mile-range lance missiles with rockets capable of hitting targets more than 100 miles away
a senior administration official, speaking on condition of anonymity, issued assurances that though the modernization will proceed, there is no rush
deployment of missiles to replace the lance may not occur before 1995, the official said
there are no major decisions facing the alliance and so there's not an issue here in the day-to-day working of the alliance,'' the official said
much more study of the weaponry that would replace the lance missile is required by the defense department before the new weapons are produced, the official said
the view was echoed by wim van eekelen, the netherlands' defense minister and chairman of the eurogroup _ the european members of the nato alliance
van eekelen, whose visit to washington coincided with kohl's trip, said at a news conference that nato should adhere to its agreement on modernizing short-range missiles, while delaying a final decision to deploy until the weapons are produced
wind reaching 60 mph roared through yosemite national park, killing a 9-year-old girl when a tree fell on a cabin, authorities said
hundreds of campers were evacuated thursday night and early today, said park spokeswoman mallory smith. she could not be more specific
jasmine bitts of garden grove was fatally injured thursday night when a tree fell on the cabin near the yosemite lodge. her mother, nancy earle, suffered minor injuries
the road into the park was closed in early evening
the trees included full-grown pine more than 100 feet tall
we have a wind emergency plan and people were taken to safe areas, such as the hotel and the main lodge building,'' smith said. commences</head>
the spanish communist party opened its 12 annual national convention today, fighting for its political life. membership is on the decline and leadership wanting, party spokesman and political analysts say
the once influential communists are plagued by internal disputes and a decline in voter support that have damaged the party's image as a serious political force
party secretary general gerardo iglesias recently announced he would not seek re-election, and no major figure has stepped forward to take his place
it looks as if top leaders are shying away from divisive leadership moves, and the central committee seeks to go to collective leadership rather than back a charismatic-type chief, '' said angela bautista, editor of the central committee organ workers world
about 600 delegates to the congress are to elect 90 members to the party's central committee, which will then try to choose a secretary general
the party reached its zenith in 1979, when it won 10 percent of the vote in municipal elections
but its support has waned since it suffered a disastrous setback in 1982 general elections, receiving just 3.8 percent of the vote as prime minister felipe gonzalez's socialists swept into power in a landslide
between 1979 and 1983, the party lost 65 percent of its membership, or 120,000 people, party figures made public friday showed. since 1985, it has further dropped from 67,400 to 62,300
antonio perez henares, a political writer for the newsweekly tiempo, said a widespread feeling among communists is: ``how can we continue to believe in the party if the party leaders themselves don't believe in it enough to want to lead it?''
before it was legalized in 1977, two years after the death of dictator gen. francisco franco, the party was the country's best-organized political force. it enjoyed great support from the young, intellectuals and artists
the party was at the forefront of the eurocommunism movement, which advocates independence from the soviet union and support for democratic political procedures
but the party's appeal waned. when spain entered the european economic community in 1986, the socialists consolidated their hold on patronage and public administration
in the 1986 general elections, the united left coalition, which included communist candiates, got only 4.6 percent of the vote and seven deputies in the cortes, or spanish parliament
the current leadership crisis came to a head last december when highly-respected deputy enrique curiel resigned as the party's no. 2 man in what was viewed as a protest of the leadership of iglesias, a 43-year-old coal miner who has headed the party for the past five years
since the 1982 electoral debacle, the party's strategy has been to bring together all popular protest movements, including pacifists, ecologists and those opposed to spanish membership in the north atlantic treaty organization and to the four u.s. military bases in spain
it also backed months of strikes and demonstrations early last year by the communist-oriented workers commissions trade union and workers seeking greater pay increases and jobs for spain's more than three million unemployed
spain currently has a 21 percent jobless rate, europe's highest
but the party has failed to capitalize on the unemployment issue
the united left coalition won just 6.9 percent of the vote in june municipal elections, down from the 8.1 percent the spanish communist party won in june 1983 municipal elections
the party continues to make its presence felt through its close ties with the 700,000-strong workers commissions, the dominant labor force in large state industries
splinter communist groups include the tiny pro-soviet spanish peoples communist party, and the even tinier spanish workers party-communist unity, founded in 1986 by santiago carrillo, who led the mainstream party throughout its underground period and into legality
two police officers who were suspended after they became pregnant will be able to return to work and receive back pay, in a settlement of their sex discrimination complaint
you can only sew so many baby clothes. it tends to get monotonous,'' one of the officers, juliet fabbri, 25, said thursday
i just want to go back,'' said ms. fabbri, who is five months pregnant
lisa m. brogan, 27, who gave birth sunday to a son, daniel patrick, said she probably will wait six to weeks to return to her job
the women were suspended jan. 19 by officials of this western chicago suburb. they filed complaints 10 days later with the u.s. equal employment opportunity commission, charging they had been discriminated against because they were pregnant
the women had requested ``light duty'' or desk jobs, given to employees while they recuperate from sickness or injuries. naperville officials first said the light-duty jobs had been eliminated, then said they never had been sanctioned in the first place
there may have been times in the past when it was done, but it wasn't city policy,'' said city spokesman charlie pajor
under the agreement disclosed thursday by the eeoc, the suspensions will be lifted and they will be reinstated
the women were receiving sick pay during the suspensions, city attorney eric margolis said, but the sick pay will be credited and full monetary relief and other benefits will be provided
the city's feeling was to settle this and move on to establish policy for the city as a whole,'' margolis said
police chief james teal said he was pleased an agreement was reached. demonstrations in gaza. picks up 4th graf pvs, `on thursday ... edits to tighten after pickup. ^by sergei shargorodsky</note>
authorities today launched one of the largest police operations in israeli history, sending 1,500 volunteer officers into jerusalem's arab neighborhoods for round-the-clock patrols to head off arab riots
national police commissioner david krauss said the operation aims to curb an anticipated new wave of unrest linked to the visit of u.s. secretary of state george p. shultz, who is scheduled to leave for the middle east next wednesday
israel radio said that in the first stage of the operation, 600 officers were stationed today at the sacred temple mount, the site every friday of moslem prayers and, since the riots began, anti-israeli demonstrations
today's prayers took place without incident. but the prayer leader criticized the security presence, saying it desecrated the holy site
he called on the people to consider their fight against the israeli authorities as a holy war and to increase their struggle
security at the mosque was evident but discreet. a few dozen arab women gathered and chanted for a few minutes but dispersed quietly
at the jabaliya refugee camp in the gaza strip, several hundred people began demonstrating after noon prayers, carrying palestinian flags and throwing stones. soldiers fired tear gas at the arab marchers as army reinforcements arrived
in gaza city, soldiers threw stones and bottles at demonstrators leaving the mosque after prayers. they also fired tear gas
krauss, speaking on israel radio, said: ``we are carrying out this operation ... to ensure law and order and prepare for the shultz visit.''
on thursday, israel imposed tough rules on its occupied territories intended to cripple the palestinians economically unless they stop strikes, withholding of taxes and other acts of civil disobedience
palestinians have been heeding calls for an economic boycott of israel to accompany violence in the streets since dec. 8. u.n. officials say israeli gunfire has killed at least 55 arabs in the west bank and gaza strip, which israel captured in the 1967 middle east war
no casualties were reported thursday. but israel radio said soldiers arrested 21 arabs suspected of inciting and participating in riots in burka, a west bank village
the radio described the police operation in jerusalem as ``one of the largest in the history of israeli police.'' it said all of the estimated 1,500 police officers had volunteered and the round-the-clock patrols would begin sunday
city spokesman rafi devara said the municipality had asked that police avoid using collective punishment measures, such as curfews. he said many arab residents had asked for police intervention ``because they don't want some 100-200 young rioters to rule over a whole neighborhood.''
about 340,000 jews and 135,000 arabs live in jerusalem, once regarded as a symbol of arab-jewish coexistence
coexistence between arab and jews has collapsed,'' jerusalem mayor teddy kollek told reporters earlier this month as he toured a refugee camp within city limits that had been put under curfew
for the first time in 20 years, curfews have been imposed on the shufat refugee camp and al tur arab neighborhood and the 31 arab public schools that teach 15,000 students have been closed
since the unrest began, at least 417 arabs have been arrested in jerusalem
there have been no fatalities in the city. but in two separate clashes in shufat this week, police reportedly used live ammunition for the first time since december, wounding two arabs
the new economic restrictions announced thursday on arabs in the territories are aimed at hindering the influx of money from the palestine liberation organization
increasing numbers of the 1.5 million palestinians in the west bank and gaza have adopted passive resistance measures to the israeli occupation
leaflets and radio broadcasts urge them not to pay taxes to the jewish state, work for israelis or buy israeli-made goods
only about half the 105,000 palestinians who worked in israel before dec. 8 now do so. only a small percentage have paid taxes so far this year, according to the arab-run palestine press service and the army's information center
militants put pressure on palestinians to keep up the boycott. a teen-ager stabbed a fellow arab in the face thursday, apparently because he drove palestinians to work in israel, israel radio said
the new rules require palestinians to prove they have paid taxes before they can travel abroad or import or export goods. palestinians also are required to register sums of $1,000 or more they bring into the country. the previous limit was $5,000
the city council has determined there may be a free lunch, but it won't be gourmet
the council on thursday agreed to halt meals provided at its meetings by members of the dallas restaurant association because of a possible conflict of interest if they consider measures affecting restaurateurs
the restaurants had been serving such fare as baby spring chicken and chocolate decadence cake since the council stopped a city food service that had cost $4,600 per year
mayor annette strauss has written c. gus katsigris, president of the association, thanking the association for ``gracious and delicious luncheon service.'' but she said the lunches must be discontinued because they ``may be subject to misinterpretation.''
i'm disappointed,'' said katsigris. ``i don't think we can influence anyone with a cup of soup and some salad.''
although it appears the city will resume food service for the council members, not eveyone favors the idea
councilman jerry bartos said he supports canceling free lunches altogether: ``i'd be just as happy with a sandwich on whole wheat out of my own pocket.''
seven teen-agers have been arrested for making and exploding pipe bombs for ``kicks,'' police said
two boys were hospitalized with injuries when one bomb exploded prematurely jan. 24, detective john michalec said thursday
we estimate the pipe bombs had the explosive impact of hand grenades used in vietnam,'' he said
michalec would not identifiy the boys except to say all are 13 or 14 years old. they were turned over to juvenile authorities on charges of conspiracy, reckless endangerment and possession of prohibited weapons
the boys exploded at least eight bombs during the last eight months in fields, playgrounds and back yards, michalec said
the bombs were made from copper tubing purchased from hardware stores, thousands of kitchen matches and a model rocket fuse or similar detonator
a federal judge has refused to order the immediate reinstatement of two nuclear technicians who contend they were fired for ``whistle-blowing'' on safety problems at the school's reactor
u.s. district judge orinda evans on thursday denied a request for a temporary restraining order by paul b. sharpe and steven n. millspaugh, who wanted their jobs back while awaiting a trial of their suit for permanent reinstatement and unspecified monetary damages
georgia tech president john p. crecine on monday ordered the school's 24-year-old reactor shut down indefinitely. last month, federal regulators had curtailed operations at the reactor because of safety violations
school officials said sharpe and millspaugh were dismissed under a reorganization plan under discussion since may and not because of the safety violations
if they blew the whistle, who did they blow it to? they didn't blow it to me, and they're required to blow it to me,'' said crecine
the university says it has a policy of finding new jobs on the campus for people whose posts are eliminated and has admitted the firings were mistakes. tech offered the two other jobs on the campus pending administrative hearings but sharpe and millspaugh want their original positions back
ken clark of the nuclear regulatory commission's southeast regional office said the organization is investigating the possibility that reprisals may have been taken against the two but declined further comment
clark said the nrc also was checking possible procedural problems at the reactor, which is small by commercial standards but among the larger of about 60 research reactors in the country
tech's device is used to test reactions of materials to radioactive particles. one company is testing treatments for brain cancer, said robert macdonald, associate director of tech's neely nuclear research center
in december, the nrc learned of an unreported spill of radioactive cadmium. the substance has a half-life of 53 hours and quickly became harmless, clark said. crecine and clark said that type of spill does not need to be reported
however, because of the spill, the nrc ordered a halt to irradiation experiments in january and crecine ordered the reactor shut down monday
a reporter's videotape shows a white supremacist who is accused of sedition telling an audience, ``hate is our law, revenge is our duty.''
peter lake of los angeles taped richard g. butler, 69, of hayden lake, idaho, making the statement at two events in 1983: a cross burning in los angeles, and the swearing in of two aryan warriors, making them members of butler's aryan nations group in idaho
lake was the government's first witness in the trial of 14 white men in federal court _ 10 on charges of plotting a violent overthrow of the government, five for plotting the murder of federal officials, and two for transporting stolen money
he testified thursday about how, using the name peter lawrence, he went to butler's aryan nations compound in hayden lake and pretended to become a follower of the group's beliefs
butler, who knew he was being taped, made the statement in a context in which he said the aryans had the law of hate and the duty of revenge so long as ``the alien is in the land'' and occupies ``the seat of power.''
conviction of conspiring to overthrow the government by force has a maximum penalty of 20 years in prison and a $20,000 fine; plotting to murder federal officials has a maximum penalty of life imprisonment. transporting stolen money has a maximum penalty of 10 years in prison and a $10,000 fine
lake, a writer and television producer, said he investigated butler for a report for a los angeles tv station and a magazine published by larry flynt
under cross-examination, lake said that he carried three .45-caliber pistols on an airliner in his luggage on the trip, that he lied to butler and others at the compound, that he took the initiation as an aryan warrior insincerely, that no one ever told him that as a warrior he would have to kill or bomb or try to overthrow the government by violence, and that his companion on the trip, a felon, also was armed
because of the large number of defendants, opening statements took two days, even though four defendants put off statements until the government has finished its case
defendant ardie mcbrearty made his own statement, telling the jury that the government's case was ``a little truth here, a little truth there, and a whole lot of imagination in between.''
attorney n.c. deday larene said his client, the rev. robert miles, of cohoctah, mich., believes the races should be separate. ``he speaks of being at war with the government,'' larene said, but likened miles' rhetoric to a coach telling his players before a game, ``cripple them, go in there and kill them.''
the country's largest opposition party said today it will boycott provincial elections that the government had hoped would help resolve the island's four-year ethnic conflict
the party believes general elections should be held before any local contests are considered, said somasara dassanayake, general secretary of the sri lanka freedom party
the decision was made thursday night at a meeting chaired by sirimavo bandaranaike, party leader and former prime minister, he said. the party is dominated by the island's majority sinhalese
on thursday, a moderate tamil party appealed to the indian government to halt the sri lankan government's call for provincial council nominations, saying that continued turbulance on the island would prevent free and fair elections
the sri lanka election commission on wednesday announced that nominations for the nine provincial councils would be accepted march 2-9
the councils are designed to appease tamil militants by giving tamils greater say in local government. the militants have been calling for self-rule or independence in northern and eastern areas
tamils, who are mostly hindus, make up 18 percent of sri lanka's 16 million population. they claim they are discriminated against by the majority sinhalese buddhists, who control the central government and army
india last july signed a peace accord with sri lanka aimed at ending the four-year guerrilla war for an independent tamil homeland. but the largest rebel group, the liberation tigers of tamil eelam, has rejected the pact, and india has sent more than 42,000 troops to the island to curb the tigers
india became involved because it has 60 million ethnic tamils in its southern states who are sympathetic with the sri lankan tamils
on thursday, members of the moderate tamil united liberation front said in the southern indian city of madras that the call for provincial council nominations was premature
they noted that the peace accord calls for unification of administration in the northern and eastern provinces. front leaders said the two regions should be formally merged before council nominations and elections are held
the leaders have taken refuge in madras because of threats from militant tamils
one-year-old patrick binder was doing well after surgery to implant a metal plate over the hole in his skull where he was attached to siamese twin brother, benjamin, the hospital said
the west german infants, whose heads were separated in an historic operation last fall, were listed in stable condition at johns hopkins hospital, said spokeswoman lisa hillman
patrick's surgery was thursday, and benjamin underwent an identical six-hour operation wednesday
doctors also said the twins appeared to be making better neurological progress since the separation, ms. hillman said. doctors had feared they might suffer vision loss as a result of the surgery, in which surgeons cut a major vein supplying blood to their separate brains
bone will grow over the titanium mesh plates, which remain in their heads permanently, doctors said. in critical condition. pickup 4th graf pvs, `many students...'</note>
fire swept through the lobby of a two-story college dormitory today, forcing many students to jump 20 feet to safety and injuring at least eight students, authorities said
most had just come from a party, so they were awake,'' when the fire broke after midnight in mixon hall, a men's dormitory at chowan college, said police officer bryant cooke
one student was listed in critical condition and another in serious condition at duke university medical center, said trish womble, director of nursing at roanoke-chowan hospital, where six students were treated for minor burns
many students jumped from second-story fire escapes and windows, cooke said. cooke said one student was found unconscious, overcome by smoke, on the second floor. most students had evacuated on their own by the time firefighters arrived
the cause of the fire was still under investigation, but cooke said, ``we're thinking arson.''
the junior college has about 2,500 students. flight; mig in penultimate graf is cq.</note>
a hot-air balloon billed as the largest ever built lifted off at sunrise today from a frozen lake on its first flight
the super maine, 10 percent to 20 percent larger in volume than the largest hot-air ballon on record, rose 50 feet off the ground just before 6:30 a.m. with 25 crew members aboard
it stayed in the air, tethered to ropes, for several minutes while 100 people watched from the western shore of sebago lake in southern maine
everything's come together almost perfectly,'' project coordinator and chief pilot tom handcock said after the flight, which organizers hoped would earn them an entry in the guinness book of records
organizers of the super maine project did not try to beat the flight time of the virgin atlantic flyer, which set records by flying from maine across the atlantic ocean last summer. handcock said they only wanted to build a balloon that was larger in volume than the flyer
to qualify as an air balloon, it had to lift off the ground, no matter how briefly
the balloonists could not fly the balloon today even if they had wanted to. since organizers did not complete federal aviation administration paperwork in time, they were required to keep the balloon tethered, handcock said
after the first flight, organizers took the balloon up several more times, adding more people each time to its 8-by-12-foot gondola. at one point, 60 people were in the balloon's basket, with one man hanging onto the side as the balloon lifted off the the ground a few feet
the 210-foot-high, 168-foot-wide balloon is considered the largest because it holds 2.6 million cubic feet of hot air, between 300,000 and 500,000 cubic feet more than the 195-foot virgin atlantic flyer, handcock said
aboard the gondola on the first flight were 25 commercial balloon pilots, who built the balloon with the help of 25 other balloon enthusiasts from new england, kentucky, maryland and canada
the balloon was constructed of a polyethylene derivative called olifin and was assembled with an adhesive the organizers developed, said handcock and his wife, mig. it was constructed in four days in a massachusetts warehouse and trucked to maine
richard branson and per linstrand flew the virgin atlantic flyer into the guinness book last july by taking the balloon 2,789.6 miles from carrabassett valley to a brief touchdown in ireland before it crashed into the sea. the balloon flew 87.7 mph and took 31 hours and 38 minutes to cross the atlantic
government soldiers killed 33 anti-marxist rebels in the past week in three battles in southern mozambique, the national news agency reported today
eleven guerrillas of the mozambique national resistance were killed tuesday in fighting at bela vista, the aim agency said. it cited an unidentified military source
in addition, 17 rebels died in a battle at funhalouro, north of the capital, and five were killed at namaacha, 45 miles west of maputo, the news agency said
aim said the two battles were fought in the past week, but did not give the exact date. the aim report made no mention of government casualties in any of the conflicts
the rebels have been fighting for 11 years to topple mozambique's marxist government. guerrilla attacks on both civilian and military targets have seriously disrupted the economy and food supplies. an estimated 4.5 million of the country's 14.5 million people are in need of food aid
mozambique accuses neighboring south africa of aiding the rebels, but south africa claims it stopped providing support under the terms of a mutual non-aggresion pact signed by the two countries in 1984
both sides regularly accuse the other of violations and often trade harsh criticism
a computer whiz may face the death penalty if convicted of any of seven murder charges stemming from a shooting rampage through the silicon valley plant where he once worked
richard wade farley, 39, was arraigned thursday in san jose municipal court on the homicide charges, three counts of attempted murder and a count each of felony vandalism and second-degree burglary. he did not enter a plea
after the two-minute hearing, santa clara county deputy district attorney alan nudelman said he will seek capital punishment in the murder cases
about 200 employees at esl inc. on thursday toured the building where the attack occurred two days earlier as ``part of the healing process,'' said company spokeswoman edie cartwright
the employees saw walls, floors and furniture riddled with bullet holes and dozens of computer terminals with screens shot out, cartwright said. many windows were shattered. bloodstains were painted over and most rugs removed
the building, where 300 of the company's 2,200 employees mainly work on classified defense projects, was to reopen its first floor today. employees will return monday to the second floor, where most of the damage occurred
the first funeral for victims of the attack was scheduled later today for glenda moritz, a 27-year-old planner
farley was brought to court in handcuffs and shackles from an isolation cell where guards said he has been quiet and apparently writing letters
it was with rambling and threatening notes sent through the mail that the software engineer harassed former co-worker laura black before finally wounding her and two others and killing seven people tuesday in a six-hour siege at esl in sunnyvale, 40 miles south of san francisco
investigators and colleagues said farley apparently had no criminal record, was honorably discharged after 11 years in the navy, was intelligent and had held several high-security defense jobs
while in jail, farley ``has been kind of pondering his thoughts,'' said sheriff's sgt. cary colla, who added he had asked for envelopes to mail letters. farley, colla said, also inquired about phone privileges
wearing glasses and a red jumpsuit, farley looked around the courtroom during arraignment before judge hugh mullin iii, who ordered that he continue to be held without bail. he is to return to court march 4 to enter a plea
gregory c. paraskou, a deputy county public defender appointed to represent farley, said he had not spoken to his client about a plea
farley is being held in a isolation cell reserved for high-risk inmates. it is outfitted with a large observation window which allows guards close supervision
still recovering thursday were the four esl employees injured in the attack, including black, who was in stable condition with a gunshot wound to her shoulder
the 26-year-old electrical engineer, called the main target of the shootings, said she was haunted for four years by strange gifts, threatening letters and obsessive behavior involving a man she never dated
a son of polygamist matriarch vickie singer has been found in contempt for refusing to answer a grand jury's questions about the bombing of a mormon chapel and subsequent two-week standoff with police
after a brief closed hearing, u.s. district judge j. thomas greene opened the courtroom thursday while arguments were presented on the government's motion seeking the contempt citation against hans benjamin singer, 15
greene ordered the teen-ager under house arrest at the fairview home of ramon and harriett swapp while the matter is under appeal to the 10th u.s. circuit court of appeals
the swapps are the parents of addam swapp, who is married to two daughters of mrs. singer
earlier this month, four members of the clan _ including mrs. singer, widow of slain polygamist john singer _ pleaded innocent to federal charges stemming from the bombing of a mormon chapel in marion and the 13-day siege that followed at the clan's nearby farm
the standoff ended jan. 28 when corrections lt. fred house was killed and clan patriarch addam swapp was wounded. swapp, 26; his brother jonathan, 21; mrs. singer, 44, and her son, john timothy singer, 21, were indicted on counts ranging from conspiracy, possession and use of a bomb and firearms violations to assault and attempting to kill federal agents
a homicide charge is expected to be filed by prosecutors later this month
on feb. 5 and again wednesday, hans singer refused to answer questions from the grand jury. the boy refused to give information on matters about which he had ``personal, eyewitness knowledge,'' greene said
greene said he had granted the youth immunity from prosecution, a move authorized by the department of justice so that there could be no question of his incriminating himself
singer's refusal to answer questions from the panel came in the wake of greene's ruling that the boy had no rights to ``parent-child privilege.''
the youth's attorney, steven kuhnhausen, argued that his client ``has deeply held religious beliefs that he believes preclude him from being compelled to testify against his mother or members of his extended family.''
u.s. attorney brent ward argued that there was every indication that the boy could be a competent witness possessing first-hand knowledge of crimes ``by persons already indicted and persons not yet indicted.''
according to mrs. singer's diary, used as evidence at a previous hearing, the youth accompanied addam and jonathan swapp when they bombed the chapel. morning news show comment from aids coordinator, transition. adds 1 graf at end with more comment.</note>
aids should be attacked by creating a series of specialized institutes that bring together key scientific disciplines, medical experts told the president's aids commission
the strategy, modeled after the comprehensive cancer center program of the early 1970s, would provide a useful cross-fertilization of ideas for dealing with the complex disease, they said
medical schools and universities would be logical places to build four or five such comprehensive centers, richard ross, dean of the medical faculty at the johns hopkins university school of medicine in baltimore, said thursday
the centers could combine such disciplines as prevention, education, patient care, studies in humans and basic research into the virus that causes acquired immune deficiency syndrome, he said thursday
ideas developed in the laboratory could then be tested quickly in patients, he said
another aids expert, dr. anthony fauci, coordinator of federal aids research for the national institutes of health, defended today the rigorous testing process promising aids treatments must undergo before approval
the reason that only one drug has been made available, azt, is because it is the only drug that thus far has been shown in scientifically controlled trials to be safe and effective. it isn't a question of there are a lot of drugs around and only one is being released. that's the only one that has been shown to be effective,'' fauci said on abc-tv's ``good morning america.''
ross told the presidential commission on the human immunodeficiency virus epidemic that lack of space is one obstacle in developing comprehensive aids centers
we have the people, we have the interest, we have the commitment, but we don't have the space,'' he said. ``and we need your help in getting the space.''
retired adm. james d. watkins, chairman of the commission, asked ross to develop details of his proposal and supply them to the commission later
in an interview, ross said he did not know how much the proposed centers would cost. he estimated the buildings alone would cost some $75 million to $100 million apiece, but said he did not know what an annual operating budget would be
in his testimony, he also urged that about an equal amount of money as would go to the comprehensive centers be earmarked for institutions proposing research in one or more subject areas, short of the comprehensive approach
the idea of comprehensive centers was also proposed by aids researcher jerome groopman of deaconess hospital in boston, who urged consideration of establishing 10 to 15 such centers
he also suggested federal aids research grants be extended beyond the traditional three-year or five-year terms because research toward a vaccine or cure could well take far longer
on testing drugs for aids treatment, fauci, who also is director of national institue of allergies and infectious disease, said in the abc interview, ``if you look at the clinical trials that are going on now, there are a number of drugs that are in clinical trial, hopefully they will be expeditiously shown to either be safe and effective or will be discarded because they have been proven not to be safe and effective.'' 02-19 0630</first>
if president reagan's proposed budget actually becomes america's budget for 1989, it will mean that the federal government will collect $1,687 in individual income taxes for every man, woman and child in the country
that's an increase of $65 from the budget he presented a year ago, due almost entirely to economic growth
the mathematics are straightforward. divide the $412.4 billion expected through individual income taxes during the year by 244.4 million people, the u.s. population as of jan. 1. last year, when the total population was 242.1 million, the assumption was that individual income taxes would bring in $392.8 billion
according to the budget proposal reagan sent to capitol hill on thursday, the federal government expects its total receipts in 1989 to be $964.7 billion. besides the personal income tax, the sum includes corporate income taxes of $117.7 billion and social security taxes of $354.6 billion. the rest will come from estate and gift taxes, customs duties, excise taxes and the like
using the same population formula for this year, the total receipts represent $3,947 for everyone from the tiniest to the oldest centenarian
the source of money flowing in to the government has changed greatly in the reagan years, the administration points out. the individual and corporate income tax share of total receipts in 1989 is expected to be 4.7 percentage points less than 1980 when three out of every five dollars came from income taxes
the administration tagged two displaced worker programs for extinction because they have not ``operated efficiently to help workers adjust.''
one provides unemployment benefit payments when unemployment insurance runs out. the administration feels those additional weeks of payments ``encourage workers to delay efforts to seek new opportunities in the hope that somehow their old jobs will reappear.'' in the current year, the program cost $48 million in federal money
the second program, costing $287 million in 1988, pays states for helping dislocated workers find new occupations that use their skills, get training in new skills or meet the cost of looking for jobs. that money, says the budget, should go into a new worker readjustment program
the administration also wants to drop a work incentive program that provided job services, training and public service employment to welfare recipients
although its aim is to help curb welfare dependency, it has not proved successful or cost-effective,'' the proposal said. the government budgeted $93 million for the program this year
reagan's budget proposal for 1988 asked congress to tack on $1 for every ticket for international travel to and from the united states to be used for a government program that encourages foreign travel to the united states
congress did not pass the legislation last year and the administration wants it brought up again
money for recreation is to be cut back under the proposal from $1.7 billion this year to $1.4 billion
to make that cut, the administration wants to reduce the amount spent for buying land from $232 million to $51 million. and it proposes a halt in buying some land for park and refuge purposes through 1993 _ except for wetlands acquired with revenue from sale of duck hunting stamps and the like
the budget also makes clear that pardons are on the increase. last year, there were only 23 pardons granted by the president. that number is estimated to increase to 50 this fiscal year and 50 again in the next. there was no explanation. the number of ``denials and no actions,'' _ 290 in 1987 _ is expected to increase slightly to 300 this year and next. arrest.</note>
after a police detective was fatally shot in a drug raid, mayor raymond flynn criticized the federal government as a missing partner in the fight against ``america's vicious cycle of drugs and guns.''
detective sherman c. griffiths, 36, died thursday of a head wound suffered wednesday night. his death and those of two other officers since october were related to drug or weapon violations
flynn and police commissioner francis m. roache on thursday claimed washington is relaxing handgun controls and drug enforcement and rehabilitation programs just when tougher measures are needed
they've almost given up at the federal government,'' said roache. ``but we haven't given up in boston. we're doing everything humanly possible to protect our neighborhoods.''
this is a very, very sad day for the boston police department,'' flynn said. ``america's vicious cycle of drugs and guns has claimed another victim
great efforts are being made by our police department. they're out there doing their job every day, but there's a partner that's missing,'' said flynn. ``we need allies on the federal level.''
we're not satisfied here with nice catchwords about drugs, we want good solid programs,'' said flynn. ``at least we shouldn't throw up our hands at our border and say nothing can be done.''
griffiths was shot when he and five other plainclothes officers, armed with a search warrant, tried to force their way into an apartment in the dorchester section to look for illegal drugs
two shots were fired from inside, and one bullet hit griffiths. one officer returned fire, but did not wound anyone in the apartment
griffiths, who was married and the father of two, died at boston city hospital
albert lewin, 33, of boston, pleaded innocent to a murder charge and four other related weapons and assault charges at his arraignment thursday. he was ordered held without bail, a court clerk said
four other people pleaded innocent to charges of conspiracy to violate drug laws, said police spokesman james jordan. trial was scheduled feb. 29. a sixth person was arrested today and also is accused of murder and related offenses
the first of the three officers to die since oct. 26 was detective roy sergei, 42, who died three weeks after being wounded in a shootout. his partner was also wounded but survived
the suspect in that shooting, ted otsuki, is on the fbi's most wanted list
on feb. 10, detective thomas j. gill, 38, died after he was struck by an amtrak train while searching for guns taken in a housebreak
two officers, one on the boston force and one with the metropolitan district police, were wounded during a drug bust last month. an alleged cocaine dealer turned a shotgun on an undercover officer in the jan. 29 incident and was killed in the ensuing shootout. graf pvs, sen. sam nunn. edits throughout to conform.</note>
defense secretary frank carlucci said today america faces higher risks because of president reagan's military budget, which kills some weapons and reduces troop strength
the reductions were sent to congress on thursday as part of the budget's military spending package, which was cut in the effort to reduce federal deficits
carlucci said he chose to cut by eliminating some older weapons and by small decreases in troop strength, rather than by wholesale reductions
what it translates into is a smaller military force,'' carlucci said on nbc-tv's ``today'' show. ``it clearly means higher risks. but we have elected to do this rather than hollow out the force.''
we want to maintain good people, adequate readiness, good sustainability and we want to continue the modernization program of those weapons that we consider absolutely essential and we want to do so in the most cost-effective way,'' he said
reagan's military budget was praised by lawmakers
sen. sam nunn, d-ga., chairman of the senate armed services committee, told carlucci on thursday that he made ``exactly the right choices.''
sen. carl levin, d-mich., a critic of past pentagon budgets, praised carlucci for a ``very helpful'' budget
sen. william roth, r-del., said, ``the pentagon appears to have taken its responsibility for budget cutting more seriously in this proposed budget than in those of the past years.''
the budget proposed to authorize $299.5 billion in pentagon spending for the fiscal year starting oct. 1, including $294 billion that would actually be paid out during the 12-month period. that compares with $291.4 billion authorized for the current year
the overall pentagon budget level had been set during talks between the administration and congress last november, when reagan approved the $299.5 billion level
he originally had wanted $332.4 billion, which would have been an increase after three years of decreased spending. those reductions followed large buildups during reagan's first four years in office, when the pentagon budget doubled as part of reagan's pledge to ``rearm america.''
in the past eight weeks, carlucci said, civilian and military leaders have made ``hard choices'' to reduce spending by the $33 billion needed to reach the $299.5 billion level
carlucci said he chose ``a smaller force that was fully ready to perform its mission as opposed to a large force that was not ready. the priorities in this budget were straightforward _ people, readiness and efficient acquisition.''
i believe these choices to be not in the best interest of our national security posture,'' said carlucci. ``however, i have made them. they reflect the fiscal realities we face today and my assessment of the direction'' the pentagon should go
adm. william crowe jr., chairman of the joint chiefs of staff, said ``in a fiscally constrained environment, we had to borrow somewhat against the future to nourish the deterrent stance we have today.''
among the choices:
_the total strength of the four uniformed services will drop by 34,000 men and women, to a total of 2,138,000. the air force will take the largest reduction, accounting for 23,000 of the total cuts. but carlucci also called for a 4.3 percent pay hike for the troops and said the money is needed to keep up the high quality of recruits and re-enlistments
to meet the reductions, the army plans to cut its brigade of motorized infantry at fort lewis, wash., and cancel a previously scheduled activation of two light infantry battalions in alaska
the navy will scrap plans to establish a 14th air wing at the miramar, calif., naval air station. sixteen frigates and a missile-firing submarine will be retired and the sailors will be sent to other ships. the air force will deactivate two fighter wings and start deactivating a third
other reductions include army plans to retire 450 vietnam-era utility helicopters and 170 scout copters; cancel the troubled aquila surveillance drone program and stop production of copperhead laser-guided artillery shells; cancel development of the anti-tactical missile; and develop only one new light helicopter instead of two
_delay development of the single-warhead midgetman nuclear-tipped missile, but include $200 million to keep the program alive until a new administration can decide its fate. nunn is a supporter of the weapon. carlucci also proposed putting all 100 mx weapons aboard trains, rather than having 50 of the 10-warhead weapons aboard trains and the other 50 in land-based silos in wyoming
_kill the air force anti-satellite weapon, which congress had banned for two years from final-stage testing. the pentagon had pushed for continued development of the weapon, but carlucci said it was dropped this year because of the continued opposition from capitol hill
the foreign ministry said the regime of cuban president fidel castro violates most civil and political rights and that hundreds of thousands of people want to leave the nation, a newspaper reported
the right-wing madrid daily abc also quoted the confidential report as saying the united states was hoping to persuade the united nations to include cuba among nations periodically studied for possible human rights violations
susana ansorena, a foreign ministry spokeswoman, today confirmed that a report on the overall situation in cuba had been compiled, but she refused to reveal its contents and described it as a ``normal, confidential ministry document.''
spain has been consistently concerned with human rights in cuba and has done everything within its possibilities to defend them,'' she added
as reported thursday in abc, the document stated that, ``given the characteristics of the cuban regime, the number of people that seek to leave the country is estimated at between 200,000 and 500,000.''
abc quoted the report as saying the castro regime ``violates most civil and political rights, including the rights of free speech and assembly, has a judicial system that fails to protect rights and currently has between 1,000 and 10,000 political prisoners.''
the newspaper said the foreign ministry also found that ``a campaign to rectify errors'' under way for more than a year in cuba, had led to ``a serious economic and ideological crisis.''
abc said the document went on to add that ``the line adopted by cuba to overcome its crisis does not coincide with _ and in fact is contrary to _ that which (soviet leader mikhail) gorbachev envisions for the soviet union and the socialist bloc.''
ms. ansorena said the government of socialist prime minister felipe gonzalez saw the publication of the confidential report ``as an attempt to prejudge its position and thus pressure it into condemning the human rights situation in cuba'' in an upcoming meeting of the u.n. human rights commission in geneva
the independent counsel investigating the iran-contra affair has retained noted constitutional scholar laurence tribe to represent his office during an expected supreme court review of the special prosecutor law
independent counsel lawrence e. walsh on thursday asked the high court for permission to allow tribe, a harvard university law professor, to file a friend-of-the court brief to defend the constitutionality of the special prosecutor law
another independent counsel, alexia morrison, has asked the court to review last month's decision by the u.s. circuit court of appeals here that struck down the contitutionality of judicial appointment of special prosecutors to investigate alleged wrongdoing by high government officials
the divided appellate panel ruled that court appointment of special prosecutors, or independent counsels as they are formally called, encroaches on the president's exclusive consstitutional authority to enforce the law
the court could agree to take the case as early as monday
unlike morrison, walsh has a parallel appointment from the justice department to investigate the iran-contra affair, so the appeals court decision does not threaten his prosecutorial authority
but his office participated as a friend of the court in appellate court arguments last year on the challenge to the law
a second round of high wind blowing across southern california killed a child, left a boater missing and fanned two fires that injured six people and left at least 55 homeless today, officials said
hundreds of campers were evacuated from yosemite national park late thursday and early today when wind topping 60 mph knocked down trees up to 100 feet tall, park spokeswoman mallory smith said
one tree crashed through a cabin and crushed 9-year-old jasmine bitts of garden grove, who was staying with her mother and a companion, who suffered minor injuries
at sea, the coast guard resumed an air-sea search today for a lone sailor reported missing thursday on a 30-foot boat
the boater, chris dodd, 28, of los altos, set sail for the mainland tuesday from santa catalina island in 12-foot seas. he had been rescued by the coast guard once before this week, when a galley water hose broke monday and his boat swamped, avalon harbor patrol officer john bray said
in los angeles, the dry santa ana wind blowing down out of the great basin in nevada and western utah spread flames to houses in two separate blazes today
six people, including a firefighter, were injured when an unfinished apartment building caught fire shortly after midnight, and wind-swept embers spread the blaze to a 10-unit apartment complex and four other buildings
twenty-five to 30 people were left homeless and damage was estimated at $345,000, fire spokesman jim williamson said
in east los angeles, a fire in a commercial building spread to three houses early today, said los angeles county fire spokesman bob haskell. more than 20 people were left homeless
that fire was blamed on electrical wires that were blown into contact over a roofing company, sending sparks into two propane tanks. damage was estimated at $500,000
late thursday, the santa ana wind knocked out power to about 2,000 southern california edison co. customers and an additional estimated 1,500 city department of water and power customers, officials said
earlier this week, in the first blast of blustery weather, wind was blamed for four deaths
one man was electrocuted when a power line was blown down, and three were killed in a highway accident triggered when a tractor-trailer rig buffeted by wind slewed off the highway and into two cars. moving on sports wire.</note>
in one moment, the shouts of happiness turned to groans of sorrow and golden hopes became dashed dreams
oh no, not again,'' exclaimed one hometown fan as he watched olympic speed skater dan jansen fall to the ice with about 200 meters left in the 1000-meter race at the calgary games
he's got too much hurt,'' said another. ``he's trying too bad to win something for his sister.''
jansen's friends and fans had gathered thursday night to watch the televised race at a tavern next to the state fairgrounds, where earlier this month he won the world sprint speed skating championship
on this night, however, they saw jansen lose his balance just as he did four nights earlier, trying to carry the hope for an olympic medal and the burden of his sister's death
danny comes in here all the time,'' said randy strumberger, a bartender at the tavern. ``when he comes in again, i'll run around the bar and hug him and buy him his first drink.''
for jansen's friends and family in this milwaukee suburb of nearly 64,000, thursday's race was another chapter in a week of tragedy. on sunday, jansen's sister, jane, died of leukemia. hours later, jansen fell in the first turn of the 500-meter race, in which he was favored for a medal. he did not finish
between then and thursday, the community rallied behind their hometown hero, and thousands of people signed a banner that was sent to jansen in calgary
the banner proclaimed: ``dan be strong. keep the faith. wisconsin is with you all the way.''
it's amazing the number of people i run into who know the jansen family,'' said jim hill, a customer at the tavern. ``this is a small community.''
but the dreams of jansen overcoming his emotional turmoil and skating to victory and gold were shattered in an instant once again
it was horrifying,'' said his father, harry jansen, who watched the race at home with other family members. ``it was unbelievable, especially that it happened like that on a straightaway.''
jansen spoke with his son earlier in the day. ``i asked him how he was doing, and he said he was feeling pretty good. but then he would read some of the nice telegrams he got and he said would start feeling down again
i told him he's a champion in my book.''
but while jansen believed his son fell in the earlier race because of pressures from the sister's death, he doubted the same was true for thursday's fall
he was skating too good,'' jansen said. ``his concentration looked good. his stamina was good. i thought he was going to skate a good race, and he did.''
jansen said he would offer his son encouragement when he arrived home today for his sister's funeral on saturday
i'm proud of him,'' he said. ``he did well just to get out there and set an example for everyone else.'' graf pvs: `it could...'</note>
pope john paul ii today blamed the east and west for the world's economic and social injustices and said their ``exaggerated concern for security'' widened the gap between rich and poor
in his seventh encyclical, the polish-born pontiff said the injustices forced developing countries to be ``cogs on a gigantic wheel.''
the 102-page document is an authoritative statement of the church's social doctrine. titled in latin ``sollicitudo rei socialis,'' meaning the social concern of the church, it represents an effort by john paul to give force to themes he has espoused during the 9{ years of his papacy
the pontiff said the church took a critical view of both liberal capitalism and marxist collectivism and that both systems needed urgent reform. he also called for democratic political change in nations with corrupt, dictatorial or authoritarian governments
he called for reform of the international trade, monetary and financial systems and free access for all to advanced technology
an unacceptably exaggerated concern for security ... deadens the impulse toward united cooperation by all ... to the detriment especially of peaceful peoples who are impeded from their rightful access to the goods meant for all,'' he said
the document also said the church should avoid accumulating ``superfluous church ornaments and costly furnishings.''
it could be obligatory to sell these goods in order to provide food, drink, clothing and shelter for those who lack these things,'' it said
at a vatican news conference today, two prelates said the passage on selling church property was ``prophetic'' but did not represent a new position
cardinal roger etchegary, president of the vatican's justice and peace commission, said the passage was symbolic, recalling the time john paul gave away his pastoral ring during a visit to brazil
etchegary said the encyclical was not for the third world or any particular groups. ``its strength of attraction consists in the insistence of depicting the world in its globality and its fundamental unity,'' he said
the pope reviewed problems of social development in the two decades since the encyclical ``populorum progressio'' (development of peoples) was published by pope paul vi in 1967
john paul broke new ground in his forceful attack on the division of the world into ideological and military blocs, which he called ``a direct obstacle to the real transformation of the conditions of underdevelopment in the developing and less advanced countries.''
a vatican official familiar with the drafting of the letter said it reflected the pope's polish background, and addressed problems of people living in the east bloc that had not been raised in paul vi's encyclical
john paul complained of the suppression by some governments of economic initiative, which he said led to emigration, and that some countries were deprived of political and economic sovereignty
while the east and west blocs existed in 1967, ``in light of the subsequent economic and political repercussions and dependencies, the danger is seen to be much greater,'' the document said
each of the two blocs harbors in its own way a tendency toward imperialism ... or toward forms of neo-colonialism,'' it added
the pope said tension between the two blocs has dominated the world political scene for 40 years through the ``cold war,'' ``wars by proxy'' and the threat of nuclear war
john paul said world peace won't be achieved ``unless the world's leaders come to recognize that interdependence in itself demands the abandonment of the politics of blocs, the sacrifice of all forms of economic, military or political imperialism, and the transformation of mutual distrust into collaboration.''
noting that the danger of nuclear conflict ``seems to have receded'' and that the superpowers recently agreed to eliminate a class of nuclear weapons, he added, ``the existence and opposition of the blocs continue to be a real and worrying fact which still colors the world picture.''
conflicts ... between east and west (are) an important cause of the retardation or stagnation of the south,'' the document said
the developing countries, instead of becoming autonomous nations concerned with their own progress toward a just sharing in the goods and services meant for all, become parts of a machine, cogs on a giant wheel.''
explaining the church's role, he wrote, ``the church's social doctrine is not a `third way' between liberal capitalism and marxist collectivism, nor even a possible alternative to other solutions less radically opposed to one another: rather, it constitutes a category of its own ... of theology and particularly of moral theology.''
the document said that 20 years after the ``populorum progressio'' encyclical, hopes for development ``appear very far from being realized,'' and for many poor people ``the situation has noticeably worsened.''
it also lamented an overemphasis on the economic side of development
on other points, the pope denounced totalitarianism and terrorism
he said government birth control campaigns subject people to ``intolerable pressures, including economic ones, in order to force them to submit to this new form of oppression.'' clarify non-binding nature of primary and to correct that primary results can be overturned on march 12; picks up 20th graf pvs, bgng, `of the.'</note>
although the super tuesday primaries of march 8 are grabbing most of the campaign attention, south dakota will bask in a bit of the political limelight as well next week
we're suddenly involved in the process of picking the next president of the united states,'' said clint roberts, the former congressman who came up with the idea of an early primary
the state's presidential primary election had been held early in june, but in 1986 the legislature moved it to feb. 23, sandwiched between the new hampshire primary and super tuesday
south dakota's decision to move the presidential portion of its prirmary from june to february drew a steady trickle of candidates for campaign visits last fall, but the frequency of the visits picked up late in 1987 as candidates combined trips to iowa and south dakota
the trickle turned into a steady stream this week
officials for the campaigns of vice president george bush and sen. bob dole have said dole had an early lead in south dakota because he campaigned and built a strong organization, but that bush has gained somewhat in the past month or so
dole, bush and pat robertson have all advertised on south dakota television
in one television ad, dole stresses that he's the best candidate for the midwest because he grew up in a kansas farm town
dole has visited the state frequently, starting in 1986, when he appeared on behalf of republican candidates for state office
on the democratic side, state party leaders believe rep. richard gephardt of missouri and massachusetts gov. michael dukakis have the best chances in tuesday's primary because they have the strongest state campaign organizations
sen. paul simon of illinois is also seen as having strong support
gephardt and dukakis have spent the most time campaigning in south dakota. gephardt picked up the endorsement of sen. tom daschle on wednesday
following the iowa caucuses, gephardt, simon and dukakis moved extra campaign staff into south dakota
south dakota secretary of state joyce hazeltine predicted wednesday that almost half of the state's registered republicans and a third of democrats will vote in tuesday's presidential primary
both figures are higher than the turnout for the democratic primary in 1984 and the republican primary in 1980, the years on which hazeltine based her predictions
all 18 delegates the south dakota republican party will send to the republican national convention will be selected in the presidential primary. the gop has set a 20 percent threshold in the primary, meaning any candidate who gets less than 20 percent of the popular vote will not get any delegates in south dakota
the democratic national committee had objected to south dakota's early primary because it falls before the party's national deadline for holding primaries, but a compromise was worked out so the primary results could still mean something
as a result of the compromise, south dakota democrats have agreed that tuesday's primary results are officially non-binding, but south dakota party officials say the delegates eventually selected will be apportioned according to the popular vote
however, the statewide caucus on march 12 will have the option of accepting or rejecting the results of the primary. if the primary's results are rejected, the national convention delegates would be awarded to conform to the presidential preferences of the people attending the caucus
the democrats have a threshold of 15 percent for candidates to begin claiming delegates
of the 19 democratic delegates from south dakota, 10 will be based on the primary and another five pledged delegates will be chosen by the democratic state central committee on april 23. the four remaining delegates, top state party officials, will be unpledged. reprimanded, not censured.</head>
rep. mario biaggi faces a fate that has befallen only one congressman in the past 126 years: expulsion from the u.s. house of representatives
that expulsion came eight years ago, when rep. michael ``ozzie'' myers, a pennsylvania democrat, was expelled from congress on oct. 2, 1980, five weeks after his conviction in the abscam bribery scandal
sen. harrison a. williams jr., d-n.j., who was also convicted in abscam, resigned his seat on march 11, 1982, shortly before the senate was about to make him the first senator expelled since the civil war
in 1861 and 1862, fourteen senators and three members of the house from the south were expelled for siding with the confederacy in the war between the states
the first expulsion took place in 1797, when william blount, one of tennessee's first two senators, was turned out of office. president james madison had accused blount of conspiring with the british and the creek and cherokee indians to conquer west florida, then under the control of spain
from blount to myers, only 19 men _ four representatives, 15 senators _ have been expelled in the entire 200-year history of the senate and the house of representatives
in 1967, the house voted to exclude rep. adam clayton powell, d-n.y., but he won a court suit prohibiting congress from denying him a seat
the list of congressman indicted and convicted in office runs much longer. some resigned their seats; others lost re-election bids
then-rep. thomas j. lane, d-mass., spent four months in jail in 1956 for evading $38,542 in income taxes, but was re-elected that fall
myers was one of six house members convicted and sent to prison in the abscam scandal. myers and four others _ reps. john jenrette, d-s.c., john muphy, d-n.y., frank thompson, d-n.j., and richard kelly, r-fla. _ lost re-election bids a few months after their indictments in 1980
rep. raymond lederer, d-pa., won re-election in 1980 while under indictment in that scandal, but was convicted two months later and resigned his seat before going to prison
rep. george hansen, r-idaho, was indicted in april 1983 and convicted in 1984 of violating the 1978 ethics in government act by failing to report $333,978 in loans and other transactions on his financial disclosure forms. the house voted to reprimand him in july 1984. hansen was freed in october 1987 after serving nearly one year in prison
last dec. 18, the house voted 324-68 to reprimand rep. austin murphy, d-pa., for hiring a no-show employee, misusing congressional resources and twice having someone else cast votes for him
the house ethics committee also decided last december that former rep. william h. boner, d-tenn., violated house rules by using his campaign to obtain personal ownership rights of equipment, a building, a car and other items worth more than $200,000. but the committee said it ``lost jurisdiction'' when boner resigned last october to become mayor of nashville
the justice department last march dropped a grand jury probe of boner's finances
the house ethics committee unanimously cleared rep. fernand j. st germain, d-r.i., last april of allegations of financial wrong-doing, and rep. mary rose oakar, d-ohio, advoided disciplinary action after she reimbursed the treasury $45,000 paid to an aide who had moved from washington to new york
the ethics panel is investigating allegations that rep. charles rose, d-n.c., converted more than $63,000 in campaign money to personal use, and that fofo i.f. sunia, american samoa's non-voting delegate, had ``ghost'' employees on his house payroll
rep. harold e. ford, d-tenn., was indicted last april on charges of bank, mail and tax fraud. no trial date has been set
then-rep. claude ``buddy'' leach, d-la., was indicted in july 1979 on charges of buying votes in the 1978 elections and violating federal campain finance laws. he was acquitted of some vote-buying counts and the others were dropped, and a federal appeals court dismissed the charges of campaign finance law violations
then-rep. joshua eilberg, d-pa., was indicted in october 1978 on federal charges of illegally receiving compensation to help a philadelphia hospital get a $14.5 million federal grant. he pleaded guilty in february 1979 and was sentenced to five years' probation and fined $10,000
then-rep. daniel j. flood, d-pa., was indicted in the fall of 1978 on 13 counts of bribery, conspiracy and perjury. after a mistrial, he resigned from the house in january 1980 for health reasons after the house ethics committee had accused him of 25 rules violations. in february 1980, he pleaded guilty to conspiracy in a plea-bargaining arrangement and was given a year's probation
then-rep. charles c. diggs jr., d-mich., was indicted in march 1978 and convicted in october 1978 on 29 felony counts of illegally diverting employees' salaries to his personal use. censured by the house in 1979, diggs resigned from congress in 1980 and served seven months of a three-year prison sentence
about two dozen members of the house have been censured for misconduct, including two for sexual misconduct in 1983: daniel b. crane, r-ill., and gerry e. studds, d-mass
then-sen. thomas dodd, d-conn., was censured in 1967 for paying personal bills with campaign funds. his son, christopher, is now a senator
an armed robber locked 10 people in a bank vault and took an undetermined amount of cash from the first state bank of goltry before fleeing, authorities said
fbi spokesman dan vogel said the robber was being sought today. the oklahoma highway patrol said he drove away from the bank thursday afternoon
among the captives who spent about an hour in the vault were five bank examiners, employees and customers, said highway patrol lt. larry bennett. no one was injured
they were freed when a bank employee called her husband from a phone hidden in the vault and gave him its combination, said betty johnson, an administrative officer for the state banking department
she said the captives tried to call the sheriff's department, but couldn't get through
vogel said the robber represented himself as a loan applicant interested in starting a small business. ``he sat down ... and at that point he pulled his gun out,'' vogel said
ms. johnson said the robber ordered people into the vault, ``tossed a briefcase in and told them to fill it.'' suspect's identity; picks up 6th graf, `when the ...' adds byline.</note>
police fatally shot a man early today when he allegedly cut one officer with a knife and threatened the officer's partner, following a high-speed chase, police said
it was the second fatal shooting by dallas police within 30 hours and the third this year. two officers were killed last month in separate shootings
the chase, which began when officers noticed that a car's license plates were covered with cloth, ended on the southern methodist university campus, the scene a few hours earlier of a debate among democratic presidential candidates, police said
the man, identified as thomas holloway, 34, of dallas, was pronounced dead at parkland memorial hospital, said bill white of the dallas county medical examiner's office
during the chase, police sgt. r.d. houston said, the officers were told that the driver may have committed one or two armed robberies involving a man with a knife. houston declined to identify the officers
when the car was stopped, the man got out and cut one officer on the hand, police said. the officer fired once, striking the man, police said. the officer's partner then opened fire when the man allegedly threatened him with the knife
at least five shots were fired, police said
on wednesday night, a man who pointed a loaded pistol at an officer was shot dead by the officer's partner
police chief billy prince ordered two-officer patrols after two officers were shot to death within nine days last month
a transient was killed by police jan. 23 after he shot and killed officer john chase in a downtown parking lot. in that incident, officers said some bystanders had urged the transient to shoot the officer
on jan. 14, off-duty police cpl. james joe was killed in a shootout with two burglary suspects in an apartment complex parking lot
south korea said today it plans to lower import tariffs between 2 percent and 20 percent on cars and more than 400 other products next month
the ministry of finance said the decision was part of efforts to help curb inflation and reduce the country's trade surplus
a year ago, the united states formally asked south korea to cut tariffs and dismantle other import barriers for 982 items as a way to correct the trade imbalance between the two countries. as a result, south korea slashed import tariffs between 5 percent and 20 percent on 266 items
under the latest action, tariff rates for passenger cars will go down from the current 50 percent to 30 percent
some of the other 435 tariff cuts include: pianos, to 15 percent from 20 percent; color tv sets to 15 percent from 30 percent; computers, to 15 percent from 20 percent; film to 15 percent from 20 percent; cosmetics, to 25 percent from 30 percent; tiles, to 10 from 20 percent; and wheat and corn to 5 percent from 10 percent
plo leader yasser arafat made his debut before the u.n. human rights commission today and likened israeli practices in the occupied territories to the nazi extermination campaign
arafat also called for the formation of an ``international force'' to protect palestinian residents
the united states, he said, was encouraging israel to ``carry on with aggression and crimes'' by giving the jewish state ``unlimited support.''
the u.s. delegation left the crowded conference hall before arafat began to speak from the dais
a member of the u.s. delegation, marshall breger, declined to call it a walkout, saying only: ``we are not present.''
the seat of the israeli delegate, who has observer status in the 43-nation commission, remained empty. the delegate, ambassador pinhas eliav, said in a press statement that arafat's presence at the commission ``makes a mockery of everything that body stands for.''
in his speech, arafat said the israeli methods of dealing with the recent arab unrest in gaza and the west bank were ``operations of collective extermination''
he said israel was carrying out ``heinous massacres and crimes'' and was ``repeating today the same crimes committed against humanity at the hands of the fascists and the nazis.''
arafat said more than 120 palestinians had been killed in the recent waves of unrests and more than 3,000 wounded. in addition, he charged, 7,000 others were held in ``six new concentration camps'' set up by the israeli authorities
u.n. officials say israeli gunfire has killed at least 55 arabs in the west bank and gaza strip since protests began dec. 8. israel seized the territories during the 1967 middle east war
arafat charged that arms used by israel in quelling the unrest included ``internationally prohibited gases.'' he said he was calling on the world to ``guarantee international protection for our people'' against a ``terrorist and racist enemy who is indifferent to international law.''
such protection could be assured, he said, through the formation of an international force to enable the establishment of an independent palestinian state ``with jerusalem as its capital.''
when asked at a press conference to clarify his call for an international force, he said no new forces would be needed because u.n. peacekeeping troops were already in the area
arafat reacted heatedly when another questioner asked him whether he was hurting the situation by comparing israeli practices to the extermination of 6 million jews by the nazis
have you been commissioned by israel to ask the question?'' he countered
arafat said the u.s. threat to close the palestine liberation organization mission to the united nations in new york was a ``threat against any other state that may have views divergent from those of the united states.''
he said a closure would be a violation of international law. as a last resort the case should be taken to the international court of justice, he said
here are highlights of pope john paul ii's social encyclical released by the vatican friday:
_ problems caused by the east and west:
each of the two blocs harbors in its own way a tendency toward imperialism ... or toward forms of neo-colonialism. ... conflicts ... between east and west (are) an important cause of the retardation or stagnation of the south.''
_ reforms of international economic and financial systems:
the world monetary and financial system is marked by an excessive fluctuation or exchange rates and interest rates, to the detriment of the balance of payments and the debt situation of the poorer countries.''
_ the church's role:
the church's social doctrine is not a `third way' between liberal capitalism and marxist collectivism, nor even a possible alternative to other solutions less radically opposed to one another.''
_ church property:
faced by cases of need, one cannot ignore (necessities) in favor of superfluous church ornaments and costly furnishings for divine worship; on the contrary, it could be obligatory to sell these goods in order to provide food, drink, clothing and shelter for those who lack these things.''
_ dangers of totalitarianism:
no social group, for example a political party, has the right to upsurp the role of sole leader, since this brings about the destruction of the true subjectivity of society and of the individual citizens.''
central bank officials said today the $8 million stolen from a u.s. currency shipment to the bank was insured, and its loss won't hurt the country
the money, stolen in brazil on feb. 4, was part of $52 million the united states had sent to help argentina pay foreign bonds. argentina is the developing world's third largest debtor after brazil and mexico
thirteen sacks stuffed with $4 million dollars cash each were en route from kennedy international airport in new york to buenos aires on brazil's carrier varig when the flight made a stop in rio de janeiro, brazil
police say two of the sacks were stolen during the stopover, but that the remaining $44 million arrived without problem at buenos aires' airport
the cash was being shipped by the federal reserve bank in new york
a 15-year-old accused of fatally shooting a high school official and wounding two teachers has been moved to a medical unit because a psychologist termed him a suicide risk
in my opinion, at this time, jason harless presents an increased suicidal risk. i am recommending that the necessary protective measures be taken,'' psychologist robert clapp wrote in a report
juvenile court administrative judge jack page ordered harless moved thursday from a juvenile detention center to the medical wing of the pinellas county jail
clapp said harless became more despondent after learning of the wednesday death of richard allen, 53, assistant principal at pinellas park high school
allen was shot in the head when he and two teachers tried to break up a fight between harless and another youth in the high school's packed cafeteria on feb. 11
the teachers also were shot; both have been treated and released from a hospital
harless has been charged with five counts of attempted first-degree murder, for the shootings in the lunchroom and shots fired at two policemen. his friend jason mccoy was charged with three counts of the same offense although he is not accused of firing a weapon
a grand jury that meets march 1 will consider charges against the youths. if indicted, they will be tried as adults, said richard mensh, pinellas-pasco chief assistant state attorney
four infants in need of livers are being evaluated for transplant after a baby kept on life-support systems as a potential organ donor was declared brain dead, a hospital official said
the brain-dead diagnosis for the 7-pound infant born tuesday, was confirmed thursday after examinations by three neurologists, said joyce peabody, chief of neonatology at loma linda university medical center
the boy's heart was beating, and a respirator supplied oxygen to his organs, but he had no higher brain activity, she said. the child was born tuesday
the boy's condition, known as anencephaly, kills most babies within days after birth. their healthy organs can be transplanted if organ damage is prevented by maintaining the infants on life-support
the southern california organ procurement center would choose organ recipients, ms. peabody said. liver and heart were the most likely organs for transplant, she said, adding that loma linda officials know of one baby in need of a heart but not of the right blood type
the names of the baby's parents were withheld to protect their privacy, but ms. peabody said the mother had expressed satisfaction with the procedure
the national right to life committee, which accused loma linda of going beyond prevailing medical ethics, denounced the procedure. protesters said doctors at the hospital hadn't done enough to ensure that organs weren't removed from live children
however, ms. peabody said, the case may have answered several medical and ethical questions about the practice of maintaining anencephalics in order to use their organs
it demonstrated that the baby didn't suffer discomfort or distress, she said. it also indicated organs can be kept in condition suitable for transplant, and that the life-support apparatus didn't artificially prolong the time until the baby suffered brain death
one of the hospital's 13 heart transplant patients under age 4 received the heart of an anencephalic baby earlier this year from a donor child in canada. billions.</head>
the $1.3 billion that president reagan proposes to spend fighting aids next year _ his ``highest public health priority'' _ would be by far the largest percentage increase in any major federal program
but the 38 percent boost over current aids spending of $951 million approved by congress would pale if compared with the $534 million that the president initially requested last year
by that measure, reagan could just as well have boasted that he was more than doubling his aids request. but that would have drawn attention to the reality that congress has consistently voted much more for aids research and education than the president has requested
for fiscal 1987, for example, reagan sought $213 million and congress appropriated $502 million
with the white house calling for a drastic increase in aids spending next year, congress is considered unlikely to approve any significant increase on top of that, as it has in the past
one reason is that the overall fiscal 1989 budget plan was written in consultation with congressional leaders in deficit-reduction negotiations prompted by the october stock market crash
another is that both administration and congressional leaders have said the proposed budget is calculated in part to avoid a knock-down fight in an election year
but a high-ranking administration official said reagan gave a hint of his plans for a dramatic increase in aids spending during a meeting last summer when the president decided to appoint a white house commission on the deadly disease
this official, who discussed the budget only on condition that he not be identified, quoted reagan as saying, ``i want it (the commission) to have whatever money it needs.''
the official, who helps referee spending fights among federal health agencies, remembered thinking at that moment: ``there goes my budget.''
the 38 percent rise in aids spending compares with a net proposed increase of 5.8 percent for the 250 programs administered by the department of health and human services under the fiscal 1989 budget plan that reagan sent thursday to congress
nearly 95 percent of the huge department's proposed $396.8 billion budget, which represents about one-third of all federal spending, goes for so-called entitlement programs such as social security, medicare and medicaid
the administration has relatively little control over entitlement programs because eligiblity criteria are fixed by law
social security spending alone is expected to grow by $14 billion, or 6.4 percent, to $233.8 billion during the new fiscal year which starts oct. 1
medicaid, the state-federal health program for poor people, will cost the federal government $32.7 billion in 1989, up 7 percent from the current $30.7 billion. much of the increase is attributed to heavier spending on aids patients, from $375 million to $600 million
medicare spending for 33 million retirees and disabled workers is projected to rise to $84 billion from $78.9 billion this year
the most controversial part of the hhs spending plan is likely to be reagan's request for $1.2 billion in medicare cuts which he says are required to meet an agreed target of a $3.5 million reduction
if projections of overall medicare spending by the congressional budget office are correct, the $3.5 billion reduction target already has been met. if the administration is correct, an additional $1.2 billion in cuts would be needed
of that $1.2 billion, the administration proposes to cover about $1 billion by reducing payments to large teaching hospitals that help them with educational costs
hhs chief of staff thomas burke said a recent internal study showed that the medicare profits of teaching hospitals are 2{ times higher than those of non-teaching hospitals
it would seem these hospitals are going to be able to absorb this reduction,'' burke said
a computerized robot named robodoc may one day help surgeons perform hip replacements in an operating room of the future, university of california researchers say
orthopedic surgeon william l. bargar and veterinarian howard paul said robodoc's ability to drill and measure precisely will prove valuable in assisting physicians in hip replacements and other types of surgery
bargar and paul showed off the machine thursday at a news conference at the university's davis campus, about 15 miles west of sacramento, where bargar is an assistant clinical professor and paul is an assistant research veterinarian
the robot, which was billed as the first of its kind and is at least five years from use in hospitals, looks and sounds in its current phase much like a giant dentist's drill
bargar and paul developed the computerized mechanical arm to drill deep holes down through thighbones during hip replacement surgery so they could slip artificial hip joints inside
currently, surgeons must use a mallet and metal rasp to bore holes under the socket, at the risk of cracking the leg bone and getting a poor fit
in 1985, bargar began testing custom-made hip implants that eliminate the need to take several standard sizes of artificial hip joints into the operating room and fit the patient during surgery
so we thought, if a machine can make a prosthesis accurately, why can't a machine make the same envelope so that (the joint) will just press in,'' said paul, who replaces hips in one to two arthritic dogs every week
the better the fit, the surgeons reasoned, the easier the bone will grow onto the artificial joint and the longer it will last
traditional hip surgery is fine for older, sedentary people, but younger, active or overweight patients face a 40 percent risk of having their implants loosen within five years, bargar said
about 120,000 people undergo hip replacement surgery every year
in early laboratory tests, bargar said, the robot drilled with accuracy up to seven-thousands of an inch, nearly 60 times as accurate as the hand-held rasp and mallet
such accuracy could be a boon to other surgery, such as removal of brain tumors or implanting of teeth in the jaw, he said
we hope it's going to be picked up by oral surgery, opthmology, neurosurgery,'' said bargar. ``each of these disciplines has some procedure where the accuracy they need is better than what they can achieve.''
the researchers stressed that the robot is intended to assist human surgeons, not replace them
i initially didn't even want to use the word `robot,' because i was afraid it would scare people,'' bargar said. policy</head>
a formerly homeless woman who challenged new york city's policy of forcibly hospitalizing mentally ill street people told a harvard law school audience the policy was more humiliating than helpful
i will never, never, ever forget what happened to me and what mayor (edward) koch's program did to me,'' joyce brown, 40, said at a harvard law forum
ms. brown, who also has called herself billie boggs, called for more affordable housing and criticized government programs for the homeless, particularly new york's project help
ms. brown was the first homeless person picked up under koch's program to remove the mentally ill from the streets for treatment
a former secretary in new jersey, ms. brown lived for months on a sidewalk in manhattan until oct. 28, when city workers took her to bellevue hospital, where she was kept in a locked psychiatric ward
she protested in court, and on jan. 19 she was released after a judge ruled she could not be treated with drugs against her will
ms. brown said programs like project help only exacerbate the problem of the homeless
mayor koch wants to pick you up, humiliate you, degrade you and embarrass you by taking you to the hospital and forcing you to take medication,'' she said
since being released from the hospital, ms. brown has moved to a new york hotel for formerly homeless women where she receives meals and social services and says she is looking for work. she was accompanied to harvard by her two lawyers from the new york civil liberties union
she urged governments to build more housing for people with low and moderate incomes and described her experiences in shelters for the homeless as ``not good at all.''
there are murders, theft, rapings,'' she said. ``it is a very dangerous place to live.''
before her speech, she told the new york post she wishes she had a family
if i could pick anything i want to be right now, i'd be married with children,'' she said
armed with flashlights, walkie-talkies, and in some cases, police escorts, more than 100 volunteers took to the streets and alleys of boston today to count the number of homeless
the 117 census-takers were instructed to look behind buildings and trash bins, in doorways and all-night movies
we just about walked every street in the city,'' said allan stern, the city's director of data processing, who will tally the findings
the homeless were recorded by gender and whether adult or child, but names were not taken. totals, which will include the number of homeless who spent the night in shelters and detoxification units, were to be calculated during the day, with a final analysis expected in about one week, said stern
the city's first census, conducted last year, found about 2,860 homeless, stern said
drinking coffee to help them stay awake, the census-takers gathered before midnight at city hall. temperatures hovered around freezing outside
it's important to be able to speak with authority,'' mayor raymond flynn told the group. ``people rely on the city of boston for these kinds of figures. when we start making statements about the homeless population in america, we can speak about it with actual statistics.''
boston is the only city in the country which takes to the streets to count the homeless, stern said
it shows the concern for the issue to have so many people come out here between the hours of 1 and 3,'' said richard weintraub, 34, director of the 360-bed long island shelter
most of the volunteers were homeless workers or advocates, recruited through word-of-mouth and posters. the boston fire department donated two cars and two drivers, and police escorted some groups
in the boston's south end, a book and sweater scrunched on top of a stove in an alcove built of discarded appliances alerted weintraub's three-person group to signs of occupancy
a quick hop up on the stove and a peek into the makeshift dwelling found two people fast asleep
we still don't get all the homeless. there are people hidden away in buildings we'll just never find,'' weintraub said
the volunteers were told to be inconspicuous and not to disturb the homeless unless they were in need of assistance
at 3 a.m. a man was spotted hobbling on crutches, and the group radioed for a rescue van, which took him to a shelter, weintraub said
weintraub's group finished searching its 30-block area in the south end at 4 a.m., finding 10 men and one woman
if we don't find a lot of people on the street, that's successful,'' he said
the city uses the statistics to help determine the number of beds, resuce vans, food and medical supplies needed to care for the homeless, said ann maquire, executive director of the city's emergency shelter commission, which organized the survey
chrysler corp., under fire for planning to close a plant it acquired in its buyout of american motors, will consider a ``modest, short'' extension of production there, chrysler chairman lee iacocca says
he made the announcement after meeting thursday in washington with gov. tommy g. thompson, who has threatened to have the state sue chrysler
the meeting ``got very heated'' while wisconsin officials gave iacocca their opinion of chrysler's plans to close the factory in kenosha on sept. 30 and throw 5,500 people out of work, thompson said
the state accuses the company of violating a 1987 promise to maintain production for five years in exchange for $5 million in job-training funds
i had some things i wanted to get off my chest,'' the governor said
iacocca said after the meeting he had agreed to requests by rep. les aspin, d-wis., to look elsewhere in the company for work that might be transferred to kenosha when production of omni and horizon models ends there
we don't hold hopes too high but they specifically asked if we could have a modest, short extension,'' iacocca said. ``we're going to look and see if we can seriously do that.''
asked if iacocca meant weeks or months with the term ``modest, short extension,'' the governor said, ``he didn't put it in those kinds of terms.''
while talking to reporters, iacocca mentioned ``a couple months.''
thompson said talks will continue with chrysler in hope of averting a breach-of-contract suit against chrysler
thompson said he hopes iacocca's promise to look for new work for kenosha can prolong operations for more than a month or two but realizes ``it's not going to be five years.''
in a telephone interview from washington, the governor said the meeting ``started out very rocky. it got very heated. at times we thought the meeting was going to break up.''
i reiterated my positions to him about how they treated the state, the city, the county and the union,'' thompson said. ``we are a long way from reaching an agreement (but) it was a positive meeting.''
chrysler denies making a written commitment to maintain production for five years. iacocca says company officials are guilty of nothing more than being ``cockeyed optimists'' in originally planning to keep the plant open that long
when the 86-year-old factory closes, about 1,800 workers would be eligible for pensions, leaving 3,700 facing unemployment. state officials say the unemployment rate in the city of 75,000 could rise past 20 percent
the only defendant in u.s. custody of those named in the drug indictment of panamanian strongman gen. manuel antonio noriega pleaded innocent today in federal court
brian alden davidow, 26, a student at florida international university, had turned himself in to authorities last week, four days after being indicted for racketeering and drug trafficking along with noriega and 14 other people
davidow, free on a $500,000 bond, pleaded innocent to two indictments in a brief hearing before u.s. magistrate linnea johnson
he could face up to 60 years in prison and fines of $750,000 if convicted of conspiring with noriega to smuggle drugs from panama to the united states for the colombia-based medellin cartel, which supplies up to 80 percent of this country's cociane imports
according to prosecutors, davidow is a miami-based cocaine distributor who worked with cesar rodriguez, ruben diario paredes jimenez and others. davidow allegedly met with noriega and others in panama to arrange transportation of cocaine to florida, the indictment says
the defendant also entered an innocent plea in a second indictment accusing him of conspiracy and distribution of cocaine in 1983 and 1984
federal guidelines intended to bring consistency to sentencing for those who commit federal crimes have been declared invalid by two u.s. district judges
judge rudi brewster concurred thursday with arguments that the commission that issued the guidelines violated separation of powers among government branches
brewster found that the u.s. sentencing commission was unconstitutional because it was placed under the wing of the judicial branch of government, when the power of that branch is limited to resolution of cases, not rule-making
shortly after brewster filed his opinion, judge john rhoades issued a brief order adopting brewster's findings
the rulings came one day after brewster, rhoades and six other federal judges for the southern district of california heard arguments on the valididity of the commission created by the sentencing reform act of 1984
the act was intended to bring consistency to sentencings and affects those who commit federal crimes after nov. 1, 1987
challenges to the new rules have been filed throughout the country, but the san diego hearing was the first to reach trial
i think it's a well-written opinion and i think it will be influential,'' said judy clarke, executive director of federal defenders of san diego, which argued against the federal sentencing mandates
it tells district court judges they are not alone in concluding that an act of congress is unconstitutional, she said
assistant u.s. attorney roger haines jr. said he was disappointed with the rulings, but predicted that when other judges rule, the ``government's position will be vindicated.''
defense and government attorneys have agreed that constitutional issues ultimately must be decided by the u.s. supreme court. haines said thursday that the justice department is investigating the best strategy for appeal
in the meantime, different judges may use different sentencing standards. haines said it will cause no practical problems, but clarke contends there will be ``chaos'' in the courts
the san diego judges, who normally hear pretrial motions individually, joined in a time-saving maneuver to hear arguments raised in eight cases by 16 defendants awaiting trial on offenses ranging from drug to immigration violations. rulings from the other judges are pending
the justice department and the commission sought to preserve the new rules, but relied on different arguments
attorney kenneth geller, representing the commission, said the guidelines brought order to the inconsistent sentencing system and defended the commission as independent of the executive branch
douglass letter, the justice department's appellate litigation counsel, conceded that there could be constitutional problems because of the commission's assignment to the judicial branch
he said it should have been placed in the executive branch, under which it could legally execute laws
secretary of state george p. shultz ``most likely'' will visit syria when he goes to the middle east next week to weigh prospects for an arab-israeli negotiations, a u.s. official said today
shultz' purpose would be to discuss the situation with president hafez assad, whose support for any long-term sattlement of the arab-israeli dispute is considered essential by experts in the state department's near east bureau
a stop in damascus would be a major prestige boost to syria and mark an improvement in its u.s. relations. the country is one of six listed by the state department as a supporter of terrorism. in november 1986, president reagan imposed sanctions against syria
among the punitive measures was a ban on high-level meetings with syrians. but shultz sent richard w. murphy, the head of the near east bureau, to damascus two weeks ago to confer with assad
the u.s. official, who demanded anonymity, said shultz was ``most likely'' to schedule a stop in syria on his trip to the middle east beginning next thursday
another u.s. official, who demanded anonymity, said restrictions on visas for syrians to visit the united states are likely to be lifted
ambassador william eagleton was sent back to his post in damascus last september, after a year's absence, and u.n. ambassador vernon a. walters also visited the country
shultz's other stops will be egypt, jordan, israel and probably saudi arabia. he is trying to set up negotiations between israel and a mixed delegation of jordanians and palestinians to deal especially with the troubled west bank and gaza
the immediate aim is some form of self-rule for the 1.5 million palestinian arabs who have lived under israeli control since egypt and jordan lost the territories in the 1967 six-day war
the long-range goal is to hold a second stage of talks _ possibly in the format of an international peace conference _ by the end of the year to consider an overall settlement
shultz plans to be in the middle east until march 2 when the north atlantic treaty organization holds a summit meeting in brussels. president reagan will attend
he is making a separate trip to the soviet union, starting out today for helsinki, finland. shultz will be in moscow for talks sunday and monday, report to the nato countries in brussels on tuesday and return home for a brief rest before heading for the middle east
an influential communist party weekly criticized the official anti-semitic campaign in 1968 that led to the flight of most of the country's surviving jewish population
the article in the feb. 20 issue of the weekly polityka, seen today, was the first in an official publication to offer a detailed account reappraising the 1968 events and referring specifically to an ``anti-semitic'' campaign
its publication comes before the 20th anniversary of march 1968 student protests against censorship, which sparked what authorities then called an ``anti-zionist'' campaign that led to the dismissal of thousands of jews from official posts
government spokesman jerzy urban on tuesday promised a ``detailed discussion'' of the 1968 crisis in official publications. the government condemns ``any manifestations of anti-semitism, both in the past and at present,'' he said
a party source close to polish leader gen. wojciech jaruzelski said the polityka article was the first in a series of reappraisals that will appear in the press, radio and television, including a major commentary planned for the party's official newspaper trybuna ludu
this is the time of perestroika (reconstruction) and it is time to liquidate the mistakes, the black points on the moral side,'' said the source, requesting anonymity
perestroika describes the social and economic reforms promoted by soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev. the soviet union has been re-evaluating its history in a more critical light
we will take a clear position against anti-semitism,'' the source said. ``we want to close this chapter, which was a very unhappy chapter in our history.''
in a front-page introduction to a chronology of events connected with 1968, two polityka staff members, wieslaw wladyka and zbyslaw rykowski, wrote that ``march (1968) has been an embarrassing issue for 20 years.''
the legacy of march remains: the shame of the anti-semitic fuss, the reform of socialism buried for years, the intelligentsia left at odds with the working class, human damage.''
they wrote that the crisis was triggered by the failure of then-communist party leader wladyslaw gomulka to make basic political and economic reforms, partially under the influence of conservative soviet leader leonid brezhnev. as the country stagnated, gomulka reacted with repressive measures against reformers and dissident intellectuals
they said the ``anti-semitic syndrome in political thinking'' was part of a power struggle within the party leadership aimed at unseating gomulka. his opponents tried to appeal for popular support with nationalist slogans
the anti-semitic campaign was ignited after the 1967 arab-israeli war when some polish officials and army officers of jewish origin were accused of celebrating the israeli victory over the soviet-backed arab armies
but the campaign did not pick up momentum until after the march 1968 student riots, which authorities blamed on ``zionist traitors.'' about 9,000 jews were dismissed from posts in the party, party, government, army and other institutions
the campaign led to the emigration of most of the 30,000 jews living in poland. before the nazi holocaust of world war ii, poland was home to about 3.5 million jews, or 10 percent of the population
polityka said the precise number of emigres is unknown, but cited various estimates saying that 12,000 to 20,000 jews left poland in 1967-69
prime minister anibal cavaco silva likely will call for a review of a treaty allowing the united states to use a mid-atlantic air base if washington refuses a large increase in aid, a newspaper said today
cavaco silva planned to visit to washington next week for talks with u.s. leaders. the talks are expected to center on a 1983 bilateral accord that gives the united states use of the lajes air base in the azores islands
today, the left-of-center lisbon weekly o jornal reported sources close to the government expect ``the prime minister will officially call for a formal review of the (lajes) agreement if washington refuses a substantial increase in aid'' during his u.s. trip
two weeks ago, u.s. defense secretary frank carlucci paid a one-day visit to lisbon to discuss portuguese complaints over recent drops in u.s. assistance
carlucci and portuguese defense minister eurico de melo announced after intensive meetings in the portuguese capital feb. 3 that both sides had agreed to form a joint task force to study alternative forms of u.s. aid to portugal
congressional cuts dropped washington's military and economic assistance totals to portugal from $208 million in 1985 to $117 million for fiscal 1987
carlucci's visit to lisbon followed months of public complaints by cavaco silva and other portuguese leaders that the united states had failed to live up to its pledge in the 1983 base accord to provide increasing amounts of aid
the u.s. state department announced thursday the administration would seek $163 million in aid to portugal for fiscal 1988, which begins oct. 1
the united states first received base rights at lajes in 1951, and the u.s. presence at the portuguese-run base on the azores' terceira island has been extended in a series of subsequent accords
the latest extension agreement for use of the refuelling depot and submarine reconnaissance facilities at lajes was signed in december 1983, and expires feb. 4, 1991
in a major address thursday night, foreign minister joao de deus pinheiro reiterated portugal's strategic role in the atlantic alliance but signalled increasing concern in lisbon over the cuts in aid
portugal proclaims itself the true connecting link between the american and european pillars'' of nato, the minister said in a speech before students of the national defense institute at the northern city of oporto
but the minister said, ``it is only normal'' that portugal and the united states ``desire an update'' of their existing bilateral defense accord in the wake of the recent u.s.-soviet agreement removing intermediate-range nuclear weapons from europe
the upcoming portuguese-american negotiations shouldn't be dramatized,'' he said, because ``our common interests and views far exceed any possible bilateral difficulties.''
axel ax:son johnson, one of sweden's leading industrialists, died today in his vacation home in naples, fla., a spokesman for his company said. he was 77
johnson headed sweden's biggest family-owned conglomerate, the axel johnson group and nordstjernan ab, until he retired in 1979, said the spokeswoman, elisabeth bergstrom
she said his health had been weak for the past few years, but did not say why he died. johnson lived in stockholm
the two industrial groups, with operations in construction, shipping, stainless steel and trading, have annual revenues of $5 billion and 22,000 employees
the johnson empire was founded by johnson's late grandfather, axel, who founded a. johnson &amp; co. in 1873 as a trading company. the company gradually diversified into two groups which are still controlled by the family
johnson's only child, antonia ax:son johnson, owns 100 percent of the johnson group, which consists of axel johnson ab in sweden and johnson inc. in the united states. their combined annual revenues are about $2.5 billion
johnson's brother bo ax:son johnson is nordstjernan ab's board chairman and several close relatives are on the board
the johnson family maintains an old swedish tradition of spelling their middle name in an abbreviated form of axelson. implants</head>
the surgeon who pioneered use of the artificial heart as a ``bridge'' until a human heart can be obtained for transplant says he is re-examining the idea of permanent implantation because of a shortage of donor hearts
i think the bridge-to-transplant scenario becomes less tenable than it was, and if you're going to get into a bridge to transplant it better be with a perfect candidate,'' jack g. copeland, head of the university of arizona's heart transplant and artificial heart teams, said thursday
in august 1985, copeland became the first cardiac surgeon to use an artificial heart successfully as a bridge to transplant. michael drummond was kept alive for nine days on a jarvik-7 plastic-and-metal pump before receiving a donor organ
copeland has long held that such devices are unsuitable for permanent implantation in their current state because of complications, including development of potential stroke-causing clots, and of infections that inevitably develop over time and because the patient's lifestyle is hindered by constant tethering to an immobile drive unit
but copeland said he is rethinking his position because of the shortage of human donors
his comments came during the first day of a three-day conference on thoracic organ transplantation. other surgeons attending said that the more than 100 medical centers now performing heart transplants in the united state are vying for a constant or even declining number of donor hearts, estimated at no more than 1,500 annually
a candidate for an artificial heart as a bridge ``has to be perfect in every way, before you commit that much of your resources and before you put that guy on the top of the list ahead of the five other people that are in icu (intensive care unit) waiting for a heart,'' copeland said
he also said transplant surgeons are ``being pushed by the laws of supply and demand,'' with the death of many young people from heart disease, ``toward a relook'' at prolonged circulatory support with mechanical devices
that is happening ``even though we don't have a device that's really ready for permanent implantation,'' he said. ``i think we're being pushed toward that as a solution.'' 5th pvs, ``those self-governing...'</note>
the leader of south africa's smallest and poorest black homeland today told president p.w. botha that dividing the nation into tribal states will not solve the political problems of apartheid
kenneth mopeli, chief minister of qwaqwa, spoke after botha dedicated a new government building on a hill overlooking the capital of this 240-square-mile homeland in the dusty foothills of the drakensburg mountains
qwaqwa is one of 10 tribal homelands covering 13 percent of the nation. four are recognized as independent republics by the south african government, and six, including qwaqwa, are classified as ``self-governing states.''
botha told 80 black legislators that ``the self-governing areas have a proud history'' and that development in qwaqwa had convinced him the homeland wanted to be more self-sufficient
those self-governing states desiring independence will be encouraged and assisted toward achieving it,'' botha said. ``however, those areas that do not wish to take this step will remain an inextricable part of south africa.''
he said homeland leaders such as mopeli, who have rejected independence, will be invited to ``share in discussions on continued constitutional reform for all the black communities.''
mopeli thanked botha for the government's funding of the legislative building and described the president as one of south africa's best leaders, but he challenged botha's view of the future of the homelands
the self-governing states as they exist today are apartheid'' structures, he said, referring to the government's policy of racial segregation in which the 26.5 million blacks have no voice in national affairs. the 5 million whites control the economy and government
we are still convinced that our political salvation does not lie in the partitioning and fragmenting of the country into various parts,'' mopeli said. ``we need ... a more viable formula. we would rather see the homelands develop as regional governments within a greater federal south africa.''
botha at one point mentioned the proposed national council, an advisory body intended to negotiate a political system that would for the first time bring blacks into national politics
some council members would be chosen by botha and others would be elected. most prominent black leaders, including mopeli, have rejected the proposal
no black leader wants to be seen promoting apartheid in any form,'' he said. pvs bgng ``babbitt called... delete grafs 22-24 pvs bgng ``and there...</note>
democratic presidential candidate paul simon set aside his qualms about early disappointments and said today ``i'm in it until the finish line in atlanta,'' as republican bob dole derided the now two-man gop debate in dallas tonight as ``a bush pep rally.''
an invigorated simon, encouraged by an outpouring of cash and support, changed his mind about needing a win in minnesota or south dakota next tuesday to stay in the race
candidly, i was at first frustrated by the razor thin margins that separated me from victory in iowa and new hampshire,'' the illinois senator said in minneapolis. ``i was tempted to bow to the convention wisdom ... this is a marathon race for the heart and soul of the democratic party, and i'm in it until the finish line in atlanta.''
in florida, dole denied he and fellow republican pat robertson coordinated their decision to skip tonight's dallas debate, leaving only george bush and jack kemp to share the stage with two empty chairs
dole said his campaign received only 60 of the 2,600 tickets available, leading him to the conclusion that the forum in the vice president's one-time home state would be ``a bush pep rally.''
debate organizers said the campaigns were all allotted the same number of tickets, and criticized dole, saying he had lobbied robertson to stay away too
southerner albert gore jr., who was mainly on the sidelines in early campaign contests, came out swinging as democrats sparred at their leadoff debate of super tuesday season on thursday night
in nevada, bush won a non-binding gop presidential straw poll thursday night. but his tally was nearly equaled by undecided votes _ many of which were believed to have been cast by supporters of robertson in a bid to control later balloting. robertson also got a large chunk of votes outright
the presidential candidate ranks thinned by two on thursday as bruce babbitt and republican pete du pont made their exits. neither expressed regret about his underdog candidacy
babbitt called his quest for the nomination ``the greatest joy of my entire public life'' and du pont declared: ``our campaign lowers its flag, but our crusade continues to march.''
that marked a trio of withdrawals from the white house race in a week _ republican alexander haig, the former secretary of state, bowed out last friday in new hampshire
at the dallas debate thursday night, gore quickly took the offensive, asking michael dukakis why he was willing to tolerate a soviet client state in central america
i never said that, al,'' snapped dukakis, who racked up a big win in the new hampshire primary on tuesday
gore also scrapped with rep. richard gephardt, the democratic winner in iowa, taking the missouri congressman to task for shifts on issues
that got a rise out of gephardt, who retorted: ``maybe you ought to start looking at your own record first,'' and went on to claim that gore has moved to the right on military issues since entering the race
lately you've been sounding more like al haig than al gore,'' gephardt said sharply
that line sounds more like richard nixon than richard gephardt,'' gore fired back
gary hart, mired at the back of the democratic pack, got in a few digs, saying if gephardt's trade bill ever took effect it would be ``a catastrophe.''
and jesse jackson, who has a big southern following, drew applause when he criticized wasteful military spending
gore, who bypassed the iowa caucuses and ran only a limited campaign in new hampshire, is staking his hopes on a southern strategy. the setting of the debate _ in the biggest super tuesday state _ underscored the tennessee senator's urgent need for a strong showing in the region
at one point, gephardt jabbed gore for playing down the early contests
i don't think people vote for political strategies,'' he said
the democrats had another confrontation scheduled tonight, this one in st. paul, minn
the debate debate wasn't the only contention within republican ranks
bush, campaigning in missouri, insisted ``i'm telling the truth'' about dole. the kansas senator has been complaining about 11th-hour ads bush ran in new hampshire, attacking dole's stand on taxes, oil import fees and arms control
dole, in north carolina, made it clear the commercials were still a sore point
i wanted to get here before the tv ads,'' the kansas senator said in charlotte. ``before you see some tv ad saying bob dole will raise your taxes, say you've heard it from the candidate himself. ... we don't need any more tax increases.''
kemp, campaigning in south carolina, was asked about his prospects in the state. ``we expect to be very competitive,'' the new york congressman said. ``we're going all the way to new orleans,'' site of the gop national convention. him</head>
a man has been charged with murder in the death of his wife, who two months ago requested leniency for him in a shooting that left her wounded
linda joyce hubert, 26, was shot to death thursday in her apartment
she had survived two bullet wounds in december and asked that her husband be offered probation. she said she would not testify against him and hoped he would ``get help.''
kenneth leon hubert, 27, surrendered thursday to police. homicide sgt. jerry novak said hubert had heard he was being sought but insisted he was innocent
hubert was charged with murder and denied bond. he had been free on $5,000 bond on an attempted murder charge in the dec. 18 wounding of his wife, and on $2,000 bond on a charge of kidnapping his girlfriend in november
on monday, hubert was to have entered a plea in the december shooting
the huberts had been separated for about three years. a neighbor said hubert often came by ms. hubert's apartment
i thought the husband was a boyfriend trying to make up with her, because he was always coming around harassing her,'' said ola aubrey. ``he would come every day and stay in that car and blow his horn. she would just stay inside. she would never let him in her apartment.''
ten soviet and four canadian skiers who plan to cross the north pole on skis are finishing up training on dikson island in the far north of the soviet union and plan to depart march 1, it was reported friday
the official tass news agency said the group arrived at dikson on thursday and that final preparations for the 1,240-mile ski trip were under way
earlier this week, laurie dexter of the canadian team said the group's departure from moscow had been delayed because some equipment and food was lost. tass did not indicate whether the supplies had been found or replaced
the skiers will travel in about a week to cape of the arctic, the northernmost point of the severnaya zemlya archipelago that stretches into the arctic ocean
from there, they will set out on the trek, which is expected to last 100 days
tass said the skiers would carry 99-pound backpacks. the expedition is to conclude at cape columbia in canada
the philippines faces a rice shortage and must import 260,000 tons, because low rainfall last year resulted in an 8.7 percent decline in domestic production, a senior agriculture official said
conrado gozun, undersecretary of agriculture, told a house subcommittee thursday that merchants already were hoarding rice in anticipation of a market shortage
divers said friday they found silver bullion on the wreck of a dutch trading ship that sank off western australia in 1712
the wreck of the zuypdorp lies at the bottom of a cliff about 400 miles north of fremantle in only 10 feet of water, but the area is constantly buffeted by heavy seas
graham henderson, curator of maritime archaeology at the maritime museum in western australia state, said the conditions make it possible to dive there only a few times a year
he said the ship was headed for what is now indonesia when it foundered on a reef
he put no value on the silver coins, which along with spoon-shaped ballast blocks, clay pipes and glassware are to be displayed in the museum. video stunt</head>
heavy-metal rockers motley crue offered condolences to the 12-year-old who set his legs on fire while trying to imitate a stunt shown on one of the group's music videos
bryan tucker, who had burns over 10 percent of his body, was reported in good condition friday at memorial hospital
the members of motley crue are very sorry to learn that a young fan was injured trying to copy the `human torch' stunt as seen on the live wire video taped in 1982,'' said the statement released thursday by management firm mcghee entertainment inc. in los angeles
various of motley crue's show stunts require special equipment, clothing and other materials ... and should not be attempted at home. fire stunts are especially dangerous,'' the statement said
bryan's mother, wendy tucker, said he was in great pain but that motley crue was not to blame for her son's experiment at their home wednesday
in my day, my mom would not let me watch superman, because he jumped out of buildings,'' she said. ``it's just a different time. if you think, some of these cartoons are really rough. it didn't start with rock videos.''
tucker, who takes electric guitar lessons and wears an earring in the shape of a cross, is known around apollo middle school as a ``headbanger,'' or heavy-metal rock fan, friends said
the boy poured rubbing alcohol on his jeans and torched them. he put the flames out in a filled bathtub
a man sought in five bank robberies in the san diego area, including three committed in one day, was tracked to an apartment where he barricaded himself before apparently committing suicide, the fbi said
the man, identified as william patrick mcgrovern, 43, was found dead inside his san diego apartment thursday night, said fbi special agent james bolenbach
apparently he had shot himself shortly after barricading himself in the apartment,'' bolenbach said. no hostages were taken, and no one else was injured
fbi agents and police officers from san diego and el cajon staked out mcgrovern's apartment thursday after tracing a license plate number on a getaway car used in one of three robberies that same day
a bank in el cajon and two in san diego were robbed within a 1{-hour period and police and fbi investigators found that the same person was responsible, bolenbach said
when the officers attempted to arrest mcgrovern, he fired a shot and fled into his apartment
throughout the afternoon, further attempts to contact him and negotiate received no response,'' bolenbach said
officers heard a single shot at about 5 p.m., and when they entered about three hours later they found mcgrovern dead of a gunshot wound, he said. several weapons, ammunition and an unknown amount of money were found in the apartment
mcgrovern also is suspected of robbing a bank in escondido and one in poway last month, bolenbach said
it is not believed that mcgrovern had any accomplices, he said. the fbi did not disclose the amount of money taken in the five robberies
a traditional keepsake certificate that mclean county has been giving to newlyweds is pitting clergy against one another in a debate over the separation of church and state
the controversy also has sparked an angry response from the public, including threatening phone calls to public officials, ministers and others involved
at issue is the religious nature of the elaborate certificates, which declare a couple united in ``holy matrimony, ordained by god.'' they also bear a bible passage from the book of matthew
i think it's inappropriate for the county to be distributing religious materials,'' said david robins, minister at the unitarian church of bloomington
robins says the keepsake is a christian document and that its distribution by the county displays a lack of sensitivity toward religious minorities who don't share the same beliefs
he said the county should leave such religious keepsakes to the churches rather than involve government in the issue
i realize i'm a religious minority in a christian society and i'm sorry if this curtails the pleasure of the majority of the people in the county,'' robins said. ``but i just think this is an inappropriate activity for the county to be involved in.''
robins enlisted the support of rabbi clifford librach of the moses montefiore temple in bloomington, and together they complained to the county
mclean county clerk jeanette barrett decided to end distribution of the keepsakes on the advice of eric ruud, assistant state's attorney
however, that brought about 50 angry phone calls to the clerk's office, as well as several ``vicious, venomous'' calls to ruud and robins, librach said
we've decided to give them their choice,'' mrs. barrett said. ``i'm going to issue one without all the religious references. if they don't want either one, they don't have to take one
i think people should have a choice. they don't think the county should be in the religion business. but i don't think we've done anything wrong.''
robins and librach think mrs. barrett is missing the point. they don't think it's proper for the county to hand out any religious certificates, whether christian, unitarian or jewish
if the majority of the people in mclean county were jewish, i'd be offended if the county issued a jewish-style keepsake,'' librach said
the rev. ron r. lee, pastor of st. john's lutheran church, said his church strongly supports the separation of church and state government
freedom of religion means each group is allowed to pursue its own beliefs in a free and open environment,'' lee said. ``the government does not promote religion. any document the government produces should be free of religious statements.''
ralph e. wingate, pastor at the calvary baptist church, disagreed with robins, librach and lee
the whole thing is ridiculous to me,'' wingate said. ``they might have an argument about espousing the bible, but i think it's a non-issue.''
librach said the keepsakes go further than a simple ``in god we trust'' as appears on u.s. currency
these certificates contain excerpts from the gospel of matthew and clearly are christian documents,'' he said. ``it's a violation of the constitution. we may have to look to the courts, where i have no doubt as to what the decision will be.''
rotten row, which is said to be the world's oldest urban horseriding path, may get back its bollards and railings 47 years after they were ripped out for the world war ii effort
the rotten row tercentenary committee, set up to restore the bridle path to its former glory by its 300th anniversary in 1991, launched an appeal friday for $260,000 to finance the fence
the mile-long sandy path through hyde park in central london will be lined on each side with 1,000 cast-iron bollards linked by metal railings
major donors will have their names inscribed on the black, 3-foot high bollards, said committee chairman neil mitchell
built by king william iii and originally called the king's road, the path stretched four miles from westminster to kensington palace and was the first continuously lighted thoroughfare in britain
scholars have never agreed on the origin of the name rotten row
some trace it to ``route du roi,'' french for king's road. others say it comes from ``rotteran,'' a german verb meaning to muster, because it was used for military parades
today it is open to any horserider free of charge and is part of a network of bridle paths used as a basis for designing central park in new york
mitchell said he has invited the claremont riding academy in new york to join in the tercentenary ceremonies
the u.s. supreme court on jan. 11 let stand a federal judge's decision freeing carter, who had served 19 years of a life term. the judge found carter's conviction was tainted by racism and by prosecutors witholding information from the defense
the ruling left to the passaic county prosecutor's office the decision on whether to seek another trial for carter and artis, whose convictions were first overturned by the new jersey supreme court before a 1976 retrial
defense attorneys had considered a third trial unlikely because the eyewitness testimony had been so discredited during appeals
goceljak made the decision on a third trial in consultation with the state's director of criminal justice, donald r. belsole
belsole had said the decision would be based in part on the state of 22-year-old evidence and ``the impact of another trial on society.''
scores of jostling and shouting photographers besieged princess elena of spain at exeter university, where she is studying on a teaching fellowship
students and staff watched with a mixture of amusement and alarm friday as photographers and tv crews closed in on the 24-year-old daughter of king juan carlos and queen sophia
but the princess appeared unruffled and even shook hands with some of the photographers who had converged on the campus in southwestern england
elena, a teacher and friend of princess diana, is on a six-month teaching fellowship, working with children with special learning needs
newspaper columnist ann landers said friday about one-third of the more than 1,000 pieces of mail she receives daily come from men, most of whom are seeking advice about personal relationships
usually, the man who writes to ann landers is writing about his wife of long standing or his girlfriend of short standing, or a deadly combination (of both),'' she said
miss landers said she has used her syndicated column to educate and credited her readers' wisdom with helping her
if i could give just one piece of advice to everyone in the world, it would be just two words: be kind,'' she said. ``it is the greatest gift you can give, and it costs you nothing.''
miss landers, whose real name is eppie lederer, spoke at a breakfast meeting sponsored by the ohio newspaper association
james meredith, who broke the color barrier at the university of mississippi 26 years ago, said education remains the best vehicle to break the cycle of poverty and oppression
meredith, 54, was the first black student to attend the university of mississippi in 1962. violence broke out on the ole miss campus, and president john f. kennedy called in federal troops to maintain order
meredith graduated from the university and went on to earn a law degree at columbia university
in a speech to air force academy cadets thursday, meredith said american blacks need to take more advantage of their citzenship rights to improve their economic and political opportunities. by seeking a state-funded education at ole miss, meredith said he chose to challenge white supremacy
former vice presidential candidate geraldine ferraro says life at her fire island summer home is no day at the beach _ in fact, she can't even go to the beach because she's so recognizable
that's why ms. ferraro and husband john zaccaro are asking for a variance to build a swimming pool on their property and provide them with some privacy
because of the burden of celebrity, we are unable to take advantage of the beach except for early morning or late evening,'' ms. ferraro told an unusual manhattan meeting of the saltaire village board of zoning appeals on thursday
under village laws, an owner must have at least 10 lots to build a pool; the former congresswoman and her husband own nine. the board has reserved decision on the request, but it was not met enthusiastically by some members
when we give variances it's usually because of hardship, and i don't see the hardship here,'' said board member hilliard farr, a summer softball teammate of zaccaro and his wife
ms. ferraro ran unsuccessfully in 1984 on the democratic ticket headed by walter mondale
george bush must tone down his whining, paul simon should aim for a less professorial sound and albert gore jr. could help his campaign with a little humor, says a university of pittsburgh rhetoric expert
ted windt, professor and editor of two books on presidential rhetoric, rated the candidates' speaking style in this campaign's early grading period, giving democratic hopeful jesse jackson the best mark, a-minus, and former colorado sen. gary hart an f
regardless of whether people vote for him or not, they respect and respond to his speaking,'' windt said of jackson. ``i do think rhyming periodic sentences will grow thin after a while. he should beef his theme up with some less soaring statements.''
hart, meanwhile, fails in windt's grade book
he's had four years to answer the question, `where's the beef?' he's still unable to do it,'' the professor said. ``although he talks new ideas, he's talking about the past. in debates he cannot reply on the sensitive ... issue without attacking the media.''
on the republican side, bush ``frequently sounds like he's whining,'' according to windt, who gave the vice president a c-minus. however, in new hampshire, bush changed his style which enabled him to capture the primary
in new hampshire he began to speak rather than whine. he recognizes he's going to have to fight for the nomination with dole, and has begun to mix it up,'' windt said
the rhetoric expert gave bush's chief rival, kansas sen. bob dole, a b for the theme ``i'm one of you,'' which played so well in the iowa caucuses. the slogan, however, may prove short-sighted, he said
dole also ``has an incisive sense of humor that some think is mean,'' windt said
former television evangelist pat robertson gets a b as ``a natural tv performer.''
he's attempting to soften the hard image of a self-righteous evangelical who's out to vanquish evil. in softening his image, he has not yet developed a clear-cut image or person,'' windt said
new york rep. jack kemp, although hard to grade, gets a c plus for being ``lackluster in debates,'' windt said
among the other democrats, simon gets a c for being ``professorial, more a lecturer than a speaker,'' windt said of the illinois senator. ``he should remember that a campaign is not a required course for students, but an elective that voters can choose to attend or skip,'' he said
gore gets an incomplete for campaigning so little in iowa and new hampshire, windt said. ``he doesn't project any sense of humor'' and ``still looks like he's running for class president of a very expensive, preppy school,'' windt said
massachusetts gov. michael dukakis gets a c for coming across as a ``technocrat and a manager without human warmth,'' said windt
the university of california faces a growing admissions crisis that threatens to set black, white, hispanic and asian students competing against one another for admission, officials said
three years into the system's 15-year growth plan, enrollment has already reached levels predicted for 1995, and the university could be forced for the first time to turn away qualified high school graduates, the board of regents said at a special meeting thursday
the university has 140,000 undergraduates on its nine campuses
part of the reason for the soaring applications is the university's success at recruiting minority applicants, said university president david p. gardner
there needs to be very strong leadership by the regents and the administration to reduce the growing tension between affirmative action and ... the concerns among white students over their declining enrollment at the university,'' said henry der, a member of the asian-american task force on university admissions
der, one of a panel of educational leaders that addressed the regents, has accused the berkeley campus of setting informal quotas denying admission to asian students, who have been gaining entrance in greater and greater numbers during the past decade
he predicted such policies will lead to ``political and social wars'' if uniform admission standards are not adopted throughout the system
we have to ask whether this university is ready to let asian and white students compete on a color-blind basis,'' said der
the regents discussed raising entrance requirements but that could further widen the gap between the percentages of black and hispanic students enrolled compared to whites, they said
five percent of hispanic high school graduates and about 4 percent of blacks meet entrance requirements consisting of a combination of high school courses, a 3.3 grade point average and scholastic aptitude test results. this compares to 15 percent of white students and 32 percent of asian graduates, according to figures compiled by the california post secondary education commission. figures; picks up 5th graf pvs, `ford's 1987...'; subs 12th graf, `for workers...' with 2 grafs details of announcement.</note>
ford motor co. earned the highest profits in automotive history in 1987, out-earning general motors corp. for the second straight year and generating record profit-sharing checks for its workers
ford workers will receive an average of more than $3,700 each in profit-sharing checks as a result of ford's 1987 earnings of $4.6 billion, the company said today
the no. 2 automaker's fourth-quarter earnings rose 19 percent from a year ago and full-year earnings jumped 41 percent over 1986, but some analysts said they had expected ford to earn even more
for the final three months of 1987, ford said it earned $932 million, or $1.87 a share, on revenue of $18.8 billion, up from $785 million, or $1.50 a share, on revenue of $16.26 billion in the final quarter of 1986
for the year, ford earned $9.05 a share, on revenue of $71.6 billion, up from 1986 earnings of $3.29 billion, or $6.16 a share, on revenue of $62.7 billion
ford's 1987 earnings topped the previous record of $4.5 billion set by gm in 1984. earnings for the fourth quarter were a ford record, ford said
per-share earnings in 1986 were readjusted to reflect a two-for-one stock split on dec. 10, 1987
gm's 1987 earnings rose to $3.6 billion, or $10.06 per common share. at no. 3 chrysler corp., earnings fell slightly to $1.3 billion, or $5.90 a share
market expectations that ford's earnings would be somewhat higher for the year and quarter depressed the price of ford stock after the announcement, said douglas laughlin, industry analyst with dean witter reynolds inc. in new york. ford's stock closed down $2.25 per share at $42.25
the stock's mostly down on a gut reaction to the number but not on any real conclusive detail. it was a very respectable quarter and the year has been excellent,'' laughlin said
thomas o'grady, an analyst with integrated automotive resources inc. of wayne, pa., said the weaker-than-expected fourth quarter may have been caused by sales incentive programs, which were unnecessary a year ago when buyers were flooding showrooms to beat 1988 tax reforms
by the end of 1987, ford's nest egg of cash and marketable securities had grown to nearly $10.1 billion from $8.6 billion a year ago
ford will distribute a record total of $635 million in profit-sharing on march 8 to salaried and hourly workers. ford announced the preliminary figures today to workers at its michigan truck plant in wayne. more than 160,000 workers received an average of $2,100 for 1986
the company's u.s. employees can take pride in their performance as members of the ford team. it is fitting that they will share in the results by receiving their largest profit-sharing checks ever,'' ford chairman donald petersen said
gm workers received no share of 1986 or 1987 profits because the company's u.s. auto earnings were too low
ford's profit-sharing also is based on u.s. earnings, which jumped nearly 40 percent to $3.44 billion in 1987 from $2.46 billion in 1986 due to higher car and truck sales and increased production efficiency, ford said
ford was the only big three automaker to sell more cars and trucks in 1987 than in 1986
ford attributed its performance to improved sales worldwide, strong earnings by subsidiaries and a comfortable relationship with the united auto workers union
early in the fourth quarter, ford signed a three-year, job-protecting uaw pact that was negotiated without a strike and helps the company improve production efficiency and cut costs
the homeless, a group of americans with a major stake in the outcome of this year's election, may find themselves unable to exercise much political muscle at the polls
these cold and hungry people have attracted added attention this year as their growing visibility on city streets has brought them before both voters and those seeking votes
a recent survey by a coalition of national organizations found that most voters believe helping the hungry and homeless should be one of the top priorities of the next administration
but while the poll called on politicians to give some attention to the homeless, the question remains whether the homeless can return the attention on election day
theoretically they could make up a significant bloc
estimates of the number of homeless americans vary widely, from the 360,000 reported in a 1986 economic research study to up to 3 million claimed by some advocacy groups
it's a very difficult number to get at, because it's a difficult population to count,'' said james stimpson of the department of housing and urban development
whatever their number, it's not likely that many will be able to sign up and cast ballots
in general, registration and voting hinges on residence and the rules vary widely from state to state, according to craig donsanto of the justice department
in states such as mississippi, the rules can be very strict, while in some other parts of the country anyone who can show up at the polls may be able to vote, donsanto explained through a department spokesman
in places like new york city, for example, the homeless can use a shelter for an address, while others may even be able to list a grate on a street corner as their usual place of residence, he said
the question for new york homeless was settled by a federal court ruling in 1984, said bill kimberling of the federal election commission
he said the ruling requires the state to allow people to register to vote even if homeless. they must list an address where mail can be sent, he said, but that can be a shelter or some other location where people agree to hold the mail for them
their residence can then be listed as a separate place, wherever they are usually to be found, he added
while that court case established the homeless' right to vote in new york, beth gorey of that city's office of the national coalition for the homeless, said she was unable to estimate how many may have done so
we do take advantage of opportunities to encourage them to register, at meetings and so forth, and we always provide voter registration cards. but we don't know how many have'' registered, she said
tim hager of the coalition's washington office said voting registration efforts also have been undertaken in washington and some other areas, but he had few details
chris sprowal of the philadelphia-based national union of the homeless said that outside of major cities such as new york, chicago, philadelphia and a few others, homeless people generally find themselves barred from voting
for the most part, if they would go in and say, `i stay on the river' or `in a cardboard box' they would be denied the right to vote. they have to lie and give a residence,'' he commented
sprowal said his group is planning a meeting in atlanta to discuss launching a nationwide fight for voting for homeless people
an added problem is the near-homeless, pointed out linda davidoff of the group human serve
many people are doubled up in tight housing markets, living with friends or relatives in violation of leases, she commented. if they register and turn up on voter lists at the address where they are living, the landlord could then evict them, she said, resulting in these people being disenfranchised just like the homeless
despite their reportedly large numbers, at least in major cities, there are ``not a lot of aggressive efforts to organize'' the homeless into voting blocs, said keith summa of the coalition for the homeless atlanta office
deborah livingston of the churches committee for voter registration said a drive was conducted in new york and there have been smaller efforts in other cities
but neither major political party and none of the presidential campaigns is currently targeting formal registration drives at the homeless
the kennedy center honored seven public school superintendents friday for outstanding arts education programs
the seven are: donald s. bruno of the newport news, va., schools; ralph downs of putnam city school district in oklahoma city; laruth gray of abbott union free school district in irvington, n.y.; robert henley of the independence, mo., schools; chris l. huber of independent school district no. 16 of spring lake park, minn.; thomas marx of maine school administrative district no. 28 in camden, maine., and robert e. walton of fayette county schools in lexington, ky
the awards were being presented friday night to the superintendents by the center's alliance for arts education at the american association of school administrators' convention in las vegas
among the highlights of arts education program in each of the winning districts were:
_newport news has established a six-week summer enrichment program in the arts, and an art magnet program for high school students
_the postal service is considering drawings from two first-graders at tulakes elementary school in a competition for a future postage stamp, and another elementary student's drawing served as the state's christmas seal
_the abbott union schools use the arts to bolster instruction for at-risk youngsters in primary and secondary schools
_the independence, mo., schools sponsor a michelangelo project of art lessons for talented youngsters from low-income families and also help expose students to ballet, theater, symphonies and museums through a program called art partners
_district no. 16 in spring lake park, minn., employs a visual arts curriculum for grades k-6 and an artist-in-residence
_district no. 28 in camden, me., has added staff to all arts departments and given students in the rural area access to a mini-theater, music facility, acoustically renovated gym and visual arts facility
_the fayette county schools in lexington, ky., have visual arts specialists who instruct all elementary students one hour each week; it also has an ``arts in basic education'' program to integrate music, drama, visual arts and movement with other subjects
two convicted killers took the witness stand today to testify that an inmate trying to escape the death penalty had loaned them money and had been kind and friendly in prison
darrell edwin hoy and arthur rutherford were among eight current or former death-row convicts brought from florida state prison near starke to testify about the character of james ernest hitchcock, 31
hitchcock was convicted and sentenced to death 10 years ago for the murder of his 13-year-old step-niece
the u.s. supreme court overturned his sentence and ordered the circuit court to hold a new sentencing hearing to determine if he will die in the electric chair or receive life in prison
hoy and rutherford were brought into court today singly in handcuffs, shackles and blue prison uniforms. they were seated in the witness stand before the jury was brought in
prosecutors asked the inmates their feelings on the death penalty
i feel that's wrong for certain reasons, if i may say so,'' said hoy, whose death sentence for the 1975 slayings of two teen-agers was changed to life in prison
rutherford, who faces electrocution for a 1986 murder, agreed
i'm in florida state prison on hearsay, no evidence, no nothing,'' said rutherford. ``i'm against it.''
both described how hitchcock had loaned them money for canteen items. hoy said the defendant had given him his own radio after hoy's was stolen. he also said hitchcock helped him study for a general education degree
hitchcock spent more than a decade in a one-man cell just a few feet from florida's electric chair for the 1976 rape and strangulation of cynthia driggers
the jury now is getting a shortened version of trial testimony and hearing more than 20 witnesses testify for and against hitchcock in his effort to escape death
the jury recommendation _ life or death _ is only advisory to circuit judge gary l. formet sr
extraordinary security was in force at the orange county courthouse as a result of the appearance of the inmates. six of them are awaiting electrocution; two have had their sentences reduced to life in prison
defense attorneys, who argued successfully for their appearance, pointed out that they knew hitchcock well because they lived near him for more than a third of his life
the jury also heard a tape-recorded confession by hitchcock in which he admitted the raping and killing. he later recanted, claiming the confession was given under duress because he was held for four days in solitary confinement. using leadership to mask undercover work for cia, sted `his' undercover work. pick up 3rd pvs, `u.s. state...'</note>
a pro-iranian group said today it kidnapped a u.s. marine colonel serving with the u.n. peacekeeping force in south lebanon and released identity cards bearing his photograph
the oppressed of the earth accused lt. col. william r. higgins, 43, of using his leadership of a group attached to the u.n. interim force in lebanon to mask undercover work for the cia
u.s. state department spokesman charles redman denied thursday that higgins had any links with the cia
in a rescue attempt, shiite amal militiamen today seized six activists of the iranian-backed hezbollah, or party of god, in the southern port of tyre. the amal sealed off a 300-square-mile area
the amal, the main shiite militia in lebanon, is headed by lebanese justice minister nabih berri. it has fighting hezbollah for control of southern lebanon
the claim by oppressed of the earth was made in a typed arabic-language statement delivered to a western news agency in beirut. it was accompanied by two identity cards, one in english and one in hebrew
both bore photographs of higgins, a native of danville, ky., and what appeared to be his signature
it was the second claim of responsibility for wednesday's abduction. the first was made by a previously unknown group calling itself the islamic revolutionary brigades
william higgins, agent of the central intelligence agency who uses his u.n. observer's work as a cover for his dangerous espionage role, is in the hands of our heroic mujahedeen (holy warriors),'' the statement said
the group said it would release higgins following a complete israeli withdrawal from its security zone in south lebanon. it also demanded the release of an estimated 300 lebanese and palestinian prisoners held in khiam detention camp in south lebanon and the immediate cessation of u.s. activity in lebanon
oppressed of the earth is believed made up of shiite moslem zealots loyal to iran's revolutionary patriarch, ayatollah ruhollah khomeini
it has claimed responsibility for hijackings, bombings and and kidnappings including the abduction of 12 lebanese jews in moslem west beirut since 1984, eight of whom it said it killed
oppressed of the earth also claims to have staged the june 1985 hijacking of a twa jetliner in which a u.s. navy diver was killed
during the hijacking, the captors demanded israel free several hundred arabs it held. although israel denied any deal was made, prisoners were released in batches in the weeks that followed the americans' release
in washington, defense secretary frank carlucci said today u.s. officials are studying whether americans should be withdrawn from the u.n. observer group in light of higgins' abduction
but later, president reagan said americans will not be withdrawn. ``no. we are going to meet our obligations to the united nations,'' he said during a white house photo session
carlucci, appearing on nbc-tv's ``today'' show, said ``everything possible'' is being done to secure higgins' release
higgins, a decorated vietnam veteran, heads a 76-man observer group that operates along the lebanon-israel border and has its headquarters in jerusalem
he was kidnapped by gunmen as he was driving from tyre to unifil headquarters in the border town of naqoura. at the time he was violating u.n. rules for travel by americans
an amal spokesman said the hezbollah fundamentalists were rounded up in pre-dawn raids on houses in the port city
we suspect they were monitoring higgins' movements in tyre before his abduction. they will be interrogated,'' said the spokesman, who refused to be identified
we want higgins back and we have no red line as far as his case is concerned,'' amal's military commander, daoud daoud, said thursday
today, daoud told reporters: ``we have clear clues about the identity of the kidnappers. we're still optimistic.'' he did not elaborate
the comment came after a 30-minute meeting between amal's military, security and political chiefs in tyre and senior unifil commanders
the abduction brings the number of foreign hostages in lebanon to 25, including nine americans. most are believed held by pro-iranian shiite extremists
on thursday, a man speaking arabic telephoned a western news agency in beirut, said the islamic revolutionary brigades had kidnapped higgins and accused him of being a cia agent. he did not identify himself
when higgins was seized, he was violating u.n. rules for travel by americans in dangerous areas, unifil spokesman timur goksel said. but, the spokesman added, the colonel ``felt he couldn't abide by these restrictions
higgins felt that as chief, he should be out with his men and know what they are doing.''
american members of u.n. forces are restricted to the headquarters area and are permitted to travel in lebanon only with a u.n. military escort, he said
higgins was the third u.n. official kidnapped in lebanon this month
the other two, a swede and norwegian of the u.n. relief and works agency, were seized feb. 5. after that abduction, the u.n. put plans to revive a development program in lebanon on hold
terry a. anderson, 40, chief middle east correspondent of the associated press, is the longest held of all the hostages. he was abducted march 16, 1985. replacements</head>
the surgeon who has performed the largest number of successful lung transplants says the procedure is at a stage comparable to that of heart transplantation 10 years ago
since 1983, dr. joel d. cooper, chief of thoracic surgery at the university of toronto and toronto general hospital, has performed 15 single-lung and seven double-lung transplants
of the single-lung patients, 11 are long-term survivors, including the world's longest-living at 4{ years, and six of the seven two-lung recipients are still living
about 10 or 11 other double-lung transplants and six single-lung procedures have been attempted elsewhere during the same time, said cooper, who also has done heart-lung transplants
he said lung transplantation is no more difficult than heart transplantation, ``just different.''
the next five years will tell us how to use these transplants: singles, doubles, heart-lungs,'' cooper said thursday, the first day of a three-day international conference on thoracic organ transplantation
dr. kathryn a. hale, a pulmonologist at the university of minnesota, said she hopes the next three to five years will bring lung transplantation ``to the stage where it is no longer considered experimental.''
cooper said heart transplantation clearly has ``hit the end of phase one. clearly there will have to be more education'' to increase the availability of donor organs
and ``there will have to be other strategies developed,'' including such approaches as the use of animal organ grafts, to increase the number of transplants, he said
dr. william a. baumgartner of johns hopkins university, who last year performed a ``domino donor'' transplant in which a cystic fibrosis sufferer received the heart and lungs of a brain-dead donor after his own heart was donated to a second recipient, said that operation, and a second, have shown the procedure works
part of the reason for the double-organ procedure was a belief that a heart-lung transplant was easier and safer than a straight lung transplant
as these transplants evolve, there's going to be a role for all of these procedures,'' unilateral lung, double lung, heart-lung and domino donor, he said
he said the domino donor procedure is one ``that can be done with good results.''
but cooper said ``it's probably not good science'' in the sense that lungs now can be transplanted without the heart being removed, and the domino donor procedure ``may be a ripple of the past.''
cooper called the first johns hopkins domino donor procedure last may ``high drama'' because of the news coverage it engendered, but he said he feels it is best to leave the lung recipient with his own heart whenever possible
cooper said he was not trying to be critical of the johns hopkins team, but that he viewed the procedure from his perspective as a lung transplanter
a jury today ruled that the battle creek enquirer libeled a man who was arrested during an investigation of rape but never was charged with the crime, and awarded him $1 million
the six-member jury deliberated four hours over two days before finding that the paper had libeled cereal company mechanic david rouch when it reported on his 1979 arrest during the investigation of a rape case
jurors found that the enquirer published false information and failed to exercise reasonable care
the case set a new standard for libel in michigan when the state supreme court ruled rouch did not have to prove malice, that the report was published with knowledge of its falsity or reckless disregard for the truth. that is one of the elements generally required for a private citizen to prove libel
rouch, 52, had sought $500,000 each for punitive and actual damages. calhoun county circuit court judge stephen miller thursday threw out his claim for punitive damages after the newspaper argued rouch hadn't proven malice, a requirement of a punitive damage award
robert bernius, an attorney for the gannett co. inc.-owned newspaper, said he would appeal to the michigan court of appeals. he and publisher robert miller jr. declined further comment
during closing arguments, rouch attorney john jereck blasted the paper for ``bulldozing'' over his client's rights. ``it was a flagrant disregard under the camouflage of the claim of the public's right to know, freedom of the press,'' jereck said
bernius cited testimony from experts who said the enquirer followed standard practice by making routine checks and accurately reporting the assault and the arrest of rouch as described by police. bernius also urged the jury to focus on what the newspaper knew when the story was printed and not on subsequent developments
rouch, 52, was arrested on suspicion of raping a 17-year-old babysitter. a magistrate approved by telephone an interim personal recognizance bond and he was released. the newspaper reported his arrest and release
before he was arraigned, the investigation changed and rouch never was formally charged. because there was no arraignment, miller ruled that the state's ``official proceedings'' act didn't protect the newspaper
the enquirer didn't learn through its daily police calls that there was another arrest in the case and neither rouch nor his attorney complained until nearly a year had elapsed and the lawsuit was prepared
rouch sued the city for false arrest and received a $4,000 settlement
volunteers armed with flashlights, walkie-talkies and, in some cases, police escorts combed the city's streets and alleys early friday in an effort to find out exactly how many people have nowhere to call home
in the city's south end, a book and sweater in an alcove built of discarded appliances alerted a volunteer to the presence of life. a quick peek into the makeshift dwelling found two people fast asleep
they were left undisturbed while three volunteers recorded them by gender and approximate age
similar groups throughout the city gathered such information to be compiled into what the city believes is the country's only hands-on homeless count. a similar attempt in january to quantify the number of homeless in pennsylvania tallied only those in shelters
boston's first such count, conducted last year, found about 2,860 homeless people
the volunteers took a census of shelter occupants thursday night, then headed into the streets at midnight to look for others occupying makeshift accommodations
it's important to be able to speak with authority'' about the extent of homelessness, mayor raymond flynn told the 117 volunteers before they set out in the freezing night
people rely on the city of boston for these kinds of figures,'' he said. ``when we start making statements about the homeless population in america, we can speak about it with actual statistics.''
the city uses the statistics to help determine how much food, beds, rescue vans and medical supplies are needed to care for the homeless, said ann maquire, executive director of the city's emergency shelter commission, which organized the survey
the volunteers were given maps outlining their assigned search areas
we just about walk every street in the city,'' said allan stern, the city's director of data processing who is charged with compiling the statistics. rough numbers are expected this weekend and a final analysis is expected in about one week, he said
it shows the concern for the issue to have so many people come out here between the hours of 1 and 3'' in the morning, said richard weintraub, 34, director of the 360-bed long island shelter
the boston fire department donated two cars and two drivers. police in the downtown area introduced the census-takers at roll call, alerting officers that people would be poking through the district's nooks and crannies on a legitimate city mission
most of the volunteers were people who regularly work with the homeless and were recruited through word-of-mouth and posters. their experience proved an asset to the thoroughness of the count
one man walking slowly down a south end street hardly appeared to be homeless, but weintraub recognized him from one of the shelters. he was included in the count
we still don't get all the homeless. there are people hidden away in buildings we'll just never find,'' weintraub said
the volunteers were told to be inconspicuous and not to disturb people unless they needed help. at 3 a.m., a man was spotted hobbling on crutches and the volunteers radioed for a rescue van, which took him to shelter, weintraub said
weintraub's group finished searching its 30-block area in the south end at 4 a.m., finding 10 men and one woman
if we don't find a lot of people on the street, that's success,'' he said
some people with dangerously weakened blood vessels in the head may benefit from a new therapy that permanently inserts balloons in the arteries that supply the brain with blood, researchers said friday
the technique appears a highly effective way of preventing strokes in people with bulging arteries at the base of the brain, the researchers said
doctors have experimented with the technique for several years, but they say the latest refinements have overcome earlier drawbacks and should make it a safe way to stop lethal attacks in some people
the treatment is designed to block off vessels that are likely to burst, flooding the brain with blood. doctors from the university of illinois in chicago said they have tried it on 14 people, and in 13 of them it appears to be working well
all of the patients had giant aneurysms. these are bulging weak spots, often an inch across, in one of the two internal carotid arteries that supply blood to the brain
about 1,500 people are diagnosed with this condition in the united states each year. even with standard treatment, the weakened artery eventually bursts in about 30 percent of them, flooding the brain with blood and causing disabling and often fatal injury
the treatment is not intended for people with smaller aneurysms that can be treated in other ways
the results of the latest study, directed by dr. jafar j. jafar, were presented at a stroke conference sponsored by the american heart association
we can do it with far less mortality and morbidity than before,'' jafar said. ``patients are very grateful.''
the balloon therapy represents one of several new medical and surgical approaches being developed to prevent strokes or minimize the damage once they occur
strokes are the third-leading cause of death in the united states after heart disease and cancer. they kill about 150,000 people annually
most strokes occur when a blood clot blocks an artery in the brain, starving the tissue of oxygen. however, about 10 percent result from burst blood vessels that cause bleeding, or hemorrhage, inside the head
earlier attempts to block off giant aneurysms with balloons have been marred by small strokes called transient ischemic attacks, among other problems
in the past, there have been a lot of complications with this approach,'' said dr. vladimir c. hachinski of university hospital in london, ontario. ``this paper seems to be saying that there are instances where it will help.''
four main arteries supply blood to the brain. even when one of these arteries is shut off with a balloon, enough blood reaches the brain from the other three
it's like the water system of a city,'' jafar said. ``four viaducts bring the water in. you shut one of them off, and the others can still supply enough water to the city.''
jafar said he was able to avoid complications with a series of refinements in the technique, including measuring the brain's blood supply before permanently inserting the balloon
the patient first receives a blood-thinning drug. while the patient is awake under local anesthesia, doctors use a thin tube called a catheter to push a deflated balloon through the arteries into the head. it stops just before the aneurysm, which usually occurs at the base of the brain in one of the carotid arteries
then the balloon is filled with fluid, shutting off the artery. next, the doctors check the flow of blood to the brain from the other arteries. if it is adequate, the balloon is left in place. but if it's too weak, the balloon is removed
when this happens, the patient is given a drug called mannitol, which increases the flow of blood through the other three arteries to the brain. in a day or two, the balloon is put back and re-inflated
the one patient in whom the treatment failed suffered a mild stroke during the procedure. all the other paients are doing fine during follow-up periods ranging from six months to four years
this series was very effective,'' said dr. louis r. caplan of tufts medical school in boston. ``it's not applicable to all people with run-of-the-mill aneurysms.''
soviet pact
the u.s.-soviet nuclear arms treaty has major military and political gains for the nato alliance and should be approved without delay, a group of arms control experts told the senate foreign relations committee on friday
the overriding question is whether it lessens the risk of nuclear war,'' said paul. c. warnke. ``by getting rid of a category of nuclear weapons that are particularly vulnerable and adapted for first use, the treaty admirably meets this test.''
warnke formerly served as director of the arms control and disarmament agency. his testimony, along with the other three experts, concluded a third week of hearings by the committee, which is one of three in the senate considering the pact
the treaty also was criticized friday by william van cleave, of the hoover institution at stanford university. he told the panel that ``it is not in our interest.''
the accord was signed in december by soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev and president reagan. it eliminates u.s. and soviet nuclear-tipped missiles with a range of between 310 and 3,400 miles
the administration has pushed hard for senate ratification, which will require a two-thirds vote of the 100-member chamber. senate leaders say approval is likely
warnke told the panel that ``from the standpoint of strategic policy, intermediate and shorter-range missiles fail to meet the basic criteria strategic stability.''
because of their areas of deployment, many of them are highly vulnerable,'' he said. ``moreover, because of the shorter ranges involved, ballistic missiles in these categories can strike their targets within a few minutes and thus provide virtually no warning time.''
the treaty also offers political gains, warnke said, because it shows the ability of the 16-member north atlantic treaty organization to stand together and face down political opponents who opposed the u.s. weapons that were deployed starting in 1983, he said
ralph earle jr., policy director of the lawyers alliance for nuclear arms control, a private group, echoed warnke's comments
to discard the treaty now would undermine the solidarity and support the united states has received from our allies around the world,'' earle said
what this treaty does is put arms control back on the track following a hiatus of eight years,'' he told the panel. ``it puts the signature of a conservative american president on an arms control pact, lending the process further credibility with the public and in congress.''
this treaty can, and should, be used to galvanize support for further reductions in conventional and strategic nuclear arms,'' earle said
jonathan dean, arms control adviser to the union of concerned scientists, said the treaty ``has done more than any event of the past 40 years to promote a european feeling of responsibility for their own defense and for intra-european defense cooperation.''
the chief military effect ``is to improve nato's theater-range nuclear position while enhancing crisis stability,'' dean told the panel. ``consequently, the agreement creates no new need to improve nato's nuclear forces. it makes no sense to build down nuclear weapons with one hand and build them up with the other.''
william schneider jr., chairman of the u.s. general advisory committee on arms control and disarmament, praised the treaty's verification provisions, which include short-notice inspections and on-site inspections
he noted the soviets' ``abysmal record'' of complying with past arms control agreements and noted the new treaty ``provides an important opportunity to begin to correct this problem.''
van cleave, criticizing the treaty, said he believes the main soviet aim is to cripple reagan's star wars anti-missile defense research program and other u.s. efforts aimed at building up western defenses
virtually every western modernization program, particularly in the nuclear areas, would be greatly dampened by the current climate of arms control,'' he told the panel
new jersey has decided not to try rubin ``hurricane'' carter a third time for murder, ending the former boxer's 22-year legal saga, a prosecutor said today
john goceljak, acting prosecutor in passaic county, said the decision was based on the long period of time since the 1966 murders, the unavailability of witnesses, the likely exclusion of the only eyewitness testimony and the decision by a federal judge that carter's conviction was racially tainted
goceljak said his office today was filing a motion in superior court in paterson to dismiss the indictment against carter and john artis, accused of being his accomplice
goceljak said the decision was made in consultation with the state's criminal justice director, donald r. belsole
it's not a relief,'' said belsole, ``it's the way the system works. it's the right thing to do. it's time now to close the book on the case.''
a judge must sign the motion to finalize dismissal of the indictment, and attorney myron beldock, in a statement on behalf of carter and artis, said he hoped for quick consideration by the court
we are extremely pleased with the decision of the state of new jersey to dismiss the case against our clients, and hope that the appropriate orders will be signed promptly,'' said beldock
on jan. 11, the u.s. supreme court let stand a federal judge's ruling that cleared carter. the lower-court judge found carter's conviction was tainted by racism and by prosecutors withholding information from the defense. carter had been free on bail pending appeal after serving 19 years of a life prison term
the supreme court ruling left to the passaic county prosecutor's office the decision on whether to seek another trial for carter and his alleged accomplice, whose first convictions were overturned by the new jersey supreme court before a 1976 retrial
defense attorneys all along had considered a third trial unlikely because the eyewitness testimony had been so discredited during appeals
carter, a former middleweight contender now 50, has been living in seclusion since being freed by u.s. district judge h. lee sarokin in 1985
his cause was taken up by bob dylan, who wrote and sang ``the ballad of hurricane'' in the 1970s, actress ellen burstyn, boxer muhammed ali, singer joan baez and others who elevated carter as a symbol of racial injustice
but after a few highly publicized fund-raising events _ some touched by scandal _ carter's all-star backing faded
the legal odyssey began on a hot night june 17, 1966, when two black gunmen entered the lafayette bar and grill in paterson and killed the bartender and two patrons. hours earlier, a black paterson bartender had been shot to death by a white man
carter and artis were arrested three months later and convicted by an all-white jury in may 1967
but two witnesses later recanted, saying they had been pressured by detectives into giving false testimomny at the trial, and the case was reopened in 1974. the state supreme court threw out the first verdict in 1976
the state put carter and artis back on trial and they were convicted again in 1976, in part with the testimony of one of the recanting witnesses who retracted claims he was coerced. this time, the state's highest court upheld the convictions by a 4-3 vote in 1982
the case went to federal court and sarokin found that the 1976 convictions were tainted by ``racial stereotyping, fear and prejudice,'' and by the defense not having the full results of a lie detector test given to one of the recanting witnesses. update with rhodes announcing candidacy. picks up 6th graf pvs, `mecham's letter...' ^by larry lopez</note>
impeached gov. evan mecham says acting gov. rose mofford is replacing his administration before the senate can decide whether to remove him permanently, but a mofford aide said she has ``bent over backward'' to be fair
may i ask you to recognize that i have only been accused and not convicted of any act,'' mecham said thursday in a letter to mofford. the embattled republican also demanded that mofford forward all his mail unopened
i must convey my deep disappointment and surprise at the way your people are turning a temporary acting governorship into a complete disruption and replacement of my administration,'' mecham said
the republican-controlled house impeached mecham on charges he concealed a $350,000 campaign loan, misused $80,000 in state money and obstructed justice. his impeachment trial in the senate is scheduled to start feb. 29. he also faces a criminal trial in march in connection with the campaign loan
mecham also faces a recall election may 17, and today former u.s. rep. john rhodes, a republican, announced he would be a candidate
our state needs effective gubernatorial leadership to help our legislators solve our problems,'' said rhodes, 71, who retired from congress in 1982. ``we cannot afford continued paralysis.''
mecham is guaranteed a spot on the recall ballot, and the only other major announced candidate is carolyn warner, a democrat who lost to mecham in 1986 in a three-way race. about 80 people have picked up packets to collect the 3,336 petition signatures that are needed by march 18 to get on the ballot
mecham's letter came as mrs. mofford, a democratic secretary of state who became acting governor upon mecham's impeachment, accepted the resignation of washington lobbyist fred craft
last week, mecham urged mrs. mofford to retain craft, who has helped arizona lobby for the federal superconducting super collider and rented part of his law offices for use by arizona. craft tendered his resignation feb. 11
mecham's efforts to use craft on the superconducting super collider and other issues were controversial and stirred allegations that he had tried to get around the state procurement code
mrs. mofford issued a statement thursday, saying, ``members of the (arizona) congressional delegation have promised to continue to be especially vigilant with the issues facing arizona, especially the supercollider.''
mecham's letter criticized the way mail has been handled since his impeachment
what i protest the most is the sudden ordering of the mail room staff to vacate tuesday afternoon,'' he wrote
i realize that your people said that mail marked personal or confidential would not be opened but i insist that all mail addressed to me is to be forwarded without opening,'' he wrote
mrs. mofford's chief of staff, andy hurwitz, confirmed that state department of administration officials were brought in to handle the mail but said he would be willing to work out further compromises if needed
we have, i think, bent over backward to try and accommodate him,'' hurwitz said of mecham, noting that only those who offered resignations had actually been let go
acting mofford press secretary athia hardt said mecham aide bonnie simons and her aides were reassigned after ms. simons took the position that any mail addressed to office of the governor should go to mecham first
much of the mail requires immediate action and ``it would be irresponsible for us to bundle it up and send it off to glendale,'' ms. hardt said, referring to the suburban offices mecham has referred to as his government-in-exile
a leftist social action group on friday called for an international investigation of human rights violations by president corazon aquino's government
the philippine alliance of human rights advocates said it was filing a petition friday asking the geneva-based united nations human rights commission to investigate mrs. aquino's human rights record
the petition, copies of which were released at a news conference, alleges that ``human rights violations have increased under the aquino government.'' it asks that the commission condemn the aquino and u.s. governments for allegedly abetting them
there was no immediate comment from the aquino government. military officials had earlier denied allegations of human rights violations and said they were concocted by communist rebels and their supporters
the philippines' house of representatives is investigating charges that some of the 20 alleged rebel leaders arrested in raids early this month had been tortured
the alliance is an umbrella organization of church-affiliated human rights groups which the military claims are infiltrated by members of the rebel new people's army
in its petition, the alliance cited specific allegations of abuses, including extra-judicial executions and torture of suspected rebels, bombing of civilians, forced evacuation of rural villagers and use of armed civilian anti-communist vigilantes
it said it included the united states in the petition because the u.s. government ``has intensified its intervention in the counter-insurgency program of the aquino government.''
judge maximiano asuncion of the regional trial court in suburban quezon city said the trial of 20 alleged rebel leaders will begin next month. six of the defendants pleaded innocent to charges of illegal possession of firearms
in a televised interview after the arraignment, asuncion said he supports a proposal that trials of rebels be conducted by military tribunals instead of the civil courts because the military is in a better position to handle possible reprisals
also friday, suspected communist rebels killed a police informant in an ambush in manila, and three men shot and killed a major in the southern province of zamboanga del sur, police and military officials said
informant petronilo lim died in a manila hospital a few hours after suspected communist urban guerrillas gunned him down in the capital's tondo district, police said
in zamboanga del sur province on mindanao island 500 miles southeast of manila, three unidentified men shot maj. carlos pumano after they called him out of his home after midnight thursday, military officials said. pumano was operations chief of the philippine constabulary command in the province
flocks of pesky pigeons seem impossible to scare away and killing them is messy, but some oklahoma legislators think they've hit on a way to limit the feathered population ... birth control
state sen. leo kingston introduced an amendment that would allow game officials to use birth control-treated feed instead of poison for pigeon control
his proposal was approved as an amendment to a house bill passed by the senate on thursday that removes pigeons from the status of game birds. such status has meant they can't be shot except during hunting season. the measure would allow pigeons to be eradicated or removed from areas where they have become a nuisance
state sen. gilmer capps raised one question about the birth control idea that wasn't fully answered: what will happen to the population of stray cats that catch and eat pigeons that are ``on the pill?''
annette himmelein only met perri doughty of australia one week ago, but on saturday doughty will serve as bridesmaid at himmelein's wedding
six years ago, the young women became pen pals through a project at himmelein's high school and they later vowed to stand up for each other when they married
doughty arrived last saturday to fulfill her part of the bargain and one of the first things that struck her was the difference in climate between her 21-year-old pen pal's home and her own native city of goondiwindi in the state of queensland
i've never seen snow before,'' said doughty. ``i left a nice hot summer to come here.''
australia isn't the only foreign nation to be represented at the wedding of himmelein and mark shepherd
also attending are nanna rintala, 20, of kauhava, finland, and patrick coenen, 22, of lamaken, belgium. both are former exchange students who lived with the himmelein family
my parents' house is sort of like the u.n. right now,'' said himmelein, an assistant nurse. ``i sent all of them invitations. it was just the natural thing to do, because i consider all the exchange students we've had here my brothers and sisters.''
doughty said she was flabbergasted by the scale of the wedding
i nearly fell over when she told me she was going to have 700 people there,'' doughty said
leaders of two former tamil rebel groups that surrendered their weapons to peacekeeping troops said friday they have applied to have the groups recognized as political parties
spokesmen for the tamil eelam liberation organization and the people's liberation organization of tamil eelam said they supported the peace accord signed in july to end the four-year war by minority tamils seeking an independent homeland
the election commission announced wednesday that nominations for nine provincial councils would be accepted march 2-9. the council elections are a part of the peace accord
the commission has already granted political recognition to the former militant group eelam people's revolutionary liberation front
we have applied to the election commission for recognition as a political party,'' said subramanian haridarraj, a politburo member of the tamil eelam liberation organization. he said his group fully backed the peace accord and wanted to turn its military organization into a political movement
when asked what the once gun-wielding members are doing now, haridarraj said, ``we have got fairly large-scale poultry projects going on in mannar and vavuniya in the north and east. our members are keen to develop this kind of self-employment
and right now chicken prices are good in colombo,'' he added
a leader of the people's liberation organization of tamil eelam said, ``we are not signatories to the peace accord, but we back it. we are gearing ourselves to participate in the political process.''
the leader identified himself by his military code name, haran
the peace accord has been rejected by the largest and most powerful tamil militant group, the liberation tigers of tamil eelam
more than 45,000 indian troops are in sri lanka to disarm the tigers and enforce the pact, which was mediated by india
india is sri lanka's northern neighbor and has a large tamil population of its own. in sri lanka, tamils comprise 18 percent of the 16 million population and claim they are discriminated against by the majority buddhist sinhalese
the leaders of the less militant tamil groups both demanded that 986 rebel suspects being held in sri lankan jails be released as stipulated by the accord
we cannot afford to lose sight of our cadres yet behind bars. this is the only sore point,'' haridarraj said
the sri lankan government released hundreds of suspects immediately after the accord was signed july 29 but later stopped the process when the tigers refused to surrender arms
sri lanka's largest opposition party, the sri lanka freedom party, announced it would boycott provincial council elections, saying general elections should be held before any local polls
the moderate tamil political party tamil united liberation front also has said the elections be postponed because of the turbulence in the north and east, the tigers' stronghold
president-elect roh tae-woo announced his new cabinet lineup friday by retaining seven ministers from the old cabinet and placing three hard-liners in top security posts
roh, who takes office feb. 25, has pledged to usher in full democracy but political observers said the makeup of the cabinet indicates roh is favoring stability
roh urged new ministers to maintain administrative continuity in the face of legislative elections, economic problems and the olympic games in seoul
the former general demanded the next government establish a fresh moral standard to gain public trust but opposition parties said his cabinet lacked freshness in its character and background
the new lineup of 20 ministers plus a prime minister and deputy prime minister contained many technocrats and academics. five figures with military backgrounds were appointed as ministers of defense, labor, communications, transportation and government administration
opposition parties rejected an invitation to field candidates for the cabinet, charging that roh would continue the authoritarian rule of outgoing president chun doo-hwan no matter what they did
the move obviously limited the opposition's effect on the cabinet's formation. but it also removed the opposition from any responsibility in the policies of the new government
roh, who helped chun seize power in 1980 with military backing, won presidential elections last december after promising to end the country's long tradition of military domination
he was opposed by two opposition candidates, kim young-sam and kim dae-jung, who split the opposition ticket thereby allowing roh to win
roh gave the top security posts to three hard-liners: new defense minister oh ja-bock, home minister lee sang-hee and justice minister chung hae-chang
oh retired as chariman of the joint chiefs of staff in december and retains considerable influence in the military. he is expected to be roh's link to the armed forces
ahn moo-hyuk was retained as head of the powerful intellignece organization, the agency for national security planning, whose director works with the cabinet but is not a member
roh stressed his desire to ensure sustained economic expansion by filling economic posts with noted experts
his economic considerations were underlined feb. 11 when he named lee hyun-jae, a political moderate and noted economics professor, as prime minister
roh has said he would reduce presidential power and increase the influence of the prime miniser and his cabinet. ministers held little power in the past, with most decisions being made by the presidency
the top economic post went to a leading technocrat, rha woong-bae, who was promoted from trade minister in the old cabinet to deputy prime minister and economic planning minister
right now, we are on the threshold of entering from a developing country to an advanced country,'' roh told the new cabinet in calling for a renewed export drive
economic ministers pledged to give top priority to ensuring price stability. roh has promised development projects but the new government is expected to adopt a tight money policy with limited spending
there has been growing concern that high inflation could damage the economy. another thorny economic issue is growing trade friction with countries that have trade deficits with south korea. seoul is under strong pressure from the united states to open its markets wider to u.s. goods. as redundant; picks up 4th graf pvs, delvalle is</note>
the state department denied today reports that the u.s. government has approached panama about the possibility of dropping charges against panamanian strongman manuel antonio noriega if he and his military associates withdrew from politics
according to reports in newsday and the new york times, assistant secretary of state elliott abrams had discussed the possibility of a deal during a meeting this week in miami with panamanian president eric arturo delvalle
but state department spokesman charles redman said abrams ``made no deal, offered no deal and was not in a position to offer a deal''
he said that in response to a panamanian inquiry, abrams told delvalle that it was legally possible for the united states to drop the indictments against noriega. two florida grand juries handed down a series of drug-related indictment against noriega earlier this month
we have every intention of carrying through on the indictments,'' redman said
but justice department spokesman john k. russell earlier today did not dispute an account in today's new york times that quoted him as saying abrams had notified senior department officials that he would seek to have the indictments dropped if noriega left the country
we told him we would be against the idea,'' russell told the times
redman said russell's account was ``slightly wrong.'' redman added that he stood by his own version of what happened
at the white house, president reagan refused to discuss the subject
this is a case before the courts and i am not going to comment,'' the president said in response to a reporter's question during a picture-taking ceremony in the oval office with west german chancellor helmut kohl
delvalle is panama's titular leader, but political authority rests largely with noriega, the general who heads panama's defense forces
noriega was indicted feb. 5 by federal grand juries in miami and tampa, fla., on racketeering and other narcotics-related charges. his extradition appears highly unlikely because a 1904 treaty between the two countries does not oblige either state to extradite its own nationals
the times reported that abrams had told delvalle the charges might be dropped if noriega and his top associates withdrew from politics and go into exile. newsday published a similar report in thursday's editions
the times said the justice department told abrams it would oppose any move to drop the indictments, and that any decision to drop the indictments would have to be made by president reagan
newsday, quoting unidentified sources close to delvalle, said that delvalle agreed to discuss the offer with noriega in panama
the newspaper quoted an unidentified state department official as saying that abrams and delvalle ``discussed the situation and (abrams) urged delvalle to take a larger role as a civilian in a move to get the military to step back.''
the question of noriega's indictment did come up in the discussion,'' the newspaper quoted the official as saying. ``it is not correct to say that deals are being made.''
newsday quoted a source as saying abrams had asked delvalle to fly to washington after the meeting and telephone noriega with the offer. delvalle declined and returned to panama
the times said the proposal for a deal was initiated by delvalle, not by abrams. officials said abrams had told delvalle that the state and defense departments probably would be receptive to a dismissal of the indictments if noriega left panama, but that the justice department would oppose it
a judge said friday he would rule march 7 on union carbide corp.'s appeal of a court order that it pay $270 million in interim relief to victims of the bhopal gas leak
another judge hearing the government's $3 billion damage case against union carbide adjourned proceedings until march 16 to await the decision in the appeal
high court judge s.k. seth heard closing arguments on the appeal of the interim relief order, which carbide says is unfair until liability in the 1984 disaster is determined
more than 2,800 people died and at least 20,000 were seriously injured when gas leaked from a carbide subsidiary in bhopal, in central india
attorney f.s. nariman, representing the danbury, conn.-based company, told the court friday that the order would not be enforceable in the united states, the united news of india reported
but indian government attorney k. parasaran said india had succeeded in previous claims cases, the news agency said
meanwhile, bhopal district judge m.w. deo adjourned hearings in the main damages case until after the appeals verdict is issued
it was deo who ordered carbide last december to deposit $270 million to be used as ``interim relief'' payments for victims. he said the victims were in great need and could not wait for help until the damages case was settled
the government filed its suit on behalf of the victims sept. 5, 1986, accusing carbide of negligence. union carbide claims the accident was the result of sabotage by a disgruntled employee
the leader of south africa's poorest black homeland told president p.w. botha on friday that partitioning the nation into such ``self-governing'' states won't solve its political problems
kenneth mopeli, chief minister of qwaqwa, was essentially saying ``no thanks'' to plans botha had outlined for more self-sufficiency and eventual independence for the tribal areas
the territories comprise 13 percent of south africa's land and are meant to be homelands for the nation's black majority, which has no voice in national affairs
mopeli called botha one of south africa's greatest leaders but challenged his view of the future for the 10 homelands
the president was in phuthaditjhaba to dedicate a new government-funded legislative assembly building for the tiny homeland in the dusty foothills of the drakensberg mountains. the president also unveiled a bust of mopeli
botha told the 80 black legislators that the self-governing areas ``have a proud history.''
he said development taking place in qwaqwa _ which means ``whiter than white'' in southern sotho dialect _ had convinced him the homeland wanted to be more self-sufficient
mopeli has steadfastly resisted independence for qwaqwa, saying it does not have enough land or industry to be economically or politically viable
qwaqwa, covering 240 square miles, is the smallest of the homelands, and many of its workers earn about $30 a month. it is one of six homelands classified as ``self-governing states.'' four homelands are recognized as independent republics by south africa
the self-governing states as they exist today are apartheid-affirmed structures,'' mopeli said, referring to the government's policy of racial separation
we are still convinced that our political salvation does not lie in the partitioning and fragmenting of this country for various groups,'' he said. ``we need ... a more viable formula.''
botha said homeland leaders such as mopeli, who have rejected independence, will be invited to ``share in discussions on continued constitutional reform for all the black communities.''
he specifically mentioned the proposed national council, an advisory body intended to negotiate a political system that would for the first time bring blacks into national politics
currently, the 5 million whites lead the government and control the economy, while the 26 million blacks are not represented in parliament
most prominent black leaders, including mopeli, have rejected the national council idea
the national council that is being envisaged as an instrument of negotiation shall always be viewed with suspicion, since according to its chief spokesman (botha), it is intended to design a constitution that will be built on the group concept,'' mopeli said. ``the fears we harbor are that once the group concept has been entrenched in the constitution, some groups may find themselves being more equal than others.''
a legislative committee beat a retreat friday after republicans and democrats alike threatened rebellion over a policy to ban food from committee rooms and the house chamber
the four-member house services committee reversed itself on a 3-1 vote, allowing legislators to have their cake and eat it, too, while working
the vote came early friday morning after majority republicans in the house stalled work thursday on dozens of major bills awaiting action. instead, the legislators went into caucus to argue over the no-food policy
the lone holdout on the committee was rep. tom ratterree, a retired air force colonel who has strong feelings about the subject
when i came up here several years ago, before i was elected, i was amazed at what i saw, people eating in committee meetings and leaving a mess,'' he told a reporter thursday
at that time ratterree vowed not to change his position
i think it's a mess,'' he said. ``i don't know of any businesses that allow that to happen.''
no vote was taken in the caucus, but several members circulated letters and gathered names in support of a reversal
several hours after the caucus at least two lawmakers defiantly munched cookies in a house committee room
earlier this week, house speaker carl ``bev'' bledsoe proposed the no-food policy when outside groups began offering legislators breakfast in the capitol before each morning's session. he said crumbs and debris from the on-the-job meals had gotten out of hand
the policy forced minority democrats to abandon their luncheon caucus and move it into the office of gov. roy romer
a u.n. spokesman said friday that a kidnapped u.s. marine serving with a peacekeeping force in lebanon was not violating travel restrictions when he was abducted, contradicting an earlier u.n. report
u.n. spokesman mario zamorano said lt. col. william r. higgins, who disappeared wednesday, was operating within u.n. guidelines when he drove from tyre to the headquarters of the u.n. interim force in lebanon in the border town of naqoura
thursday unifil spokesman timur goksel said that american members of u.n. forces are restricted to the headquarters area and are permitted to travel in lebanon only with a u.n. military escort
zamorano called goksel's report ``totally inaccurate.''
as all his predecessors, he travelled freely in the area without escort,'' zamorano said
higgins, chief of the observer group, was the 10th american to head the u.n. truce supervision organization in lebanon in the 40 years since it was formed. the 76-man group, with eight other americans besides higgins, is attached to unifil in south lebanon
for 40 years, he said, u.n. observers in the middle east have had a ``categorical rule: they do not carry weapons or move with armed escorts. that is something they want themselves
they believe their protection comes from being unarmed,'' he said
in times of danger, it has been suggested that the observers should have armed escorts,'' he said, but added, ``they always have rejected this.''
zamorano said that u.n. undersecretary-general marrack goulding met higgins' fellow officers friday and was told ``even after the abduction that they do not, repeat do not, want to be armed or have armed escorts.''
the u.n. spokesman said that on thursday higgins' u.n. observer force was pulled out of the u.n. peacekeeping area in south lebanon and withdrawn to the headquarters near naqoura
the u.n. spokesman in new york had no comment on claims of kidnap responsibility by two groups. he said the matter was under investigation
the spokesman said higgins had gone to tyre for a meeting with amal militia leaders as part of his official duties
the second court-martial of marine cpl. lindsey scott on controversial charges of raping and trying to kill a fellow marine's wife went to a military jury thursday as his father predicted acquittal
i am very confident that we will win it,'' james scott said after deliberations began. ``i just think there's justice in the world.''
scott, 32, of louisville, ky., was convicted of abduction, rape, sodomy and attempted murder in an april 20, 1983, attack at the quantico marine base
that verdict was overturned in 1987 by the u.s. military court of appeals on grounds scott had not received adequate counsel from his first civilian attorney
meanwhile, civil rights activists established a legal defense fund for scott, and cbs' ``60 minutes'' broadcast a story on the case. jesse jackson directed aides to lobby the congressional black caucus to pressure the pentagon for a new trial for the black serviceman
scott had become a suspect almost immediately after the woman, the 23-year-old wife of a military policeman who worked with him, was found dazed and bleeding
she told investigators she had been lured from her apartment by a telephone call from a man who said her husband had been in an accident and who offered to take her to the hospital
instead, the man drove her to a remote spot, raped her, choked her, stabbed her in the neck and left her for dead, she said
the white woman picked scott from a group of photographs and then from a lineup, but each time she equivocated, saying other men in the groups resembled him. once she picked out scott because she said he ``scares me the most.''
investigators said she also identified his car
the 17-day retrial ended with civilian defense attorney john leino arguing there was a lack of evidence against his client
leino repeated his charge that the naval investigative service used improper lineup techniques and led the victim to her identification of scott
the victim picked scott because ``in her mind, someone has to pay,'' he said
lieno said the only bit of forensic evidence presented in the case _ a hair taken from the victim's clothing _ did not belong to scott
we think that the motive in this case was sex ... and we believe that the intent was murder,'' military prosecutor maj. ron mcneil told the jury of seven marines
was there a conspiracy here to make this up? absolutely not. there's no conspiracy here.'' mcneil said
a crucial part of scott's defense was the testimony of a department store security guard who said she saw scott in a store at the time of the attack
the prosecution said the testimony of cynthia ausby was ``incredible.'' mcneil said ms. ausby did not firmly recall seeing scott until almost 10 months after the crime. she did not testify in the first court-martial
the defense argued that ms. ausby's recollection was aided by her checking of store arrest records. talks</head>
the justice department said friday it is declining to participate in any further settlements with families of the seven astronauts killed in the challenger shuttle crash
the department negotiated settlements with four of the seven families in december 1986
the justice department's position is that it would be unfair to contribute to any settlement higher than the amounts negotiated in 1986 and that the government has no legal liability in the accident, said department spokeswoman amelia brown
last week, the father and brother of mission specialist judith a. resnik signed an agreement with shuttle contractor morton thiokol inc. for payment of from $1.5 million to $2.5 million. the justice department declined to participate in the negotiations leading to that settlement
resnik's relatives weren't involved in the 1986 settlement
in addition to resnik, the federal government didn't make payments to the family of ronald e. mcnair, who also settled separately with thiokol
the widow of challenger pilot michael smith has sued the national aeronautics and space administration and thiokol
brown said the resnik family had rejected a ``generous'' offer prior to the 1986 settlement, which was made on behalf of nasa and morton thiokol
brown said the offer took into account the different financial needs in the families based on the number of dependents and also took into account the requests from the families that they be treated as similarly as possible in the settlement. resnik was the only challenger crew member who was not survived by a spouse and children
the justice department has never released the terms of the settlements, citing the survivors' privacy, but justice department sources, speaking on condition of anonymity, have said the amount was at least $1 million for each of the four families
a burglar with an eye for art stole an original watercolor by thomas hart benton valued at $46,000, an autographed color photograph and two other paintings, police said
the benton watercolor, ``trading at westport landing,'' apparently was a detailed study for benton's mural ``old kansas city,'' commissioned by the river club and completed in 1956
the most recent appraisal of the study put its value at $46,000
also stolen in monday's break-in was a color photograph of ``persephone,'' signed by the artist. ``persephone'' is a 1939 benton painting bought by the nelson gallery last year for a reported $2.5 million
a painting of streetcar tracks by duard marshall and a work depicting a cherry tree by an artist identified only as winchell, also were taken, but nothing else in the house was touched
sgt. bob watts, of the metro patrol burglary unit, said the fact that only the paintings and photo were stolen during the break-in ``seems to indicate they went there for the specific purpose of stealing his art.''
the owner, who asked not to be identified, and his family were friendly with benton and the owner's father bought the westport landing painting and bequeathed it to his son
some israeli soldiers who confront arab rioters are firing soft-nosed dumdum bullets, which have an exploding effect on impact and make large, tearing wounds, british opposition leader neil kinnock said friday
kinnock, leader of britain's labor party, said he saw an x-ray taken of the wound that forced doctors to amputate the lower part of a palestinian's leg
he said it ``showed shattering of the bone and flesh consistent with the use of an explosive bullet.'' at another point in the news conference, he said the injury also was consistent with ``the wound inflicted by a dumdum bullet.''
smaller caliber ammunition is being modified to make it more dangerous, he said, and displayed two .22-caliber bullets that had been filed to give them rough edges
the filed-down bullet with its extra effects of internal wounding is deliberately done ... and that conforms to many of the definitions of dumdum,'' kinnock said the third day of his visit here
since november, israeli snipers have used .22-caliber rifles under supervision of their superiors to hit leaders of palestinian protests
dumdum bullets are outlawed by the geneva conventions for use in warfare
israeli officials have denied the army uses them, but palestinian doctors have said for several weeks that only dumdums could have caused some of the wounds they treat
kinnock, who has met with israel's top leaders during his visit, said none denied such bullets were being used
on the occasions on which i've put the point, i've received rationalizations and descriptions of the terrible pressures under which the israeli defense forces are operating, but no one has attempted to deny that the bullets are used,'' he said
kinnock added, however, that he believed such ammunition was ``being used without any form of permission or direction or acceptance or endorsement by the israeli army and the israeli authorities. of that i have no doubt.''
kinnock also said there was ``clear evidence, irrefutable evidence'' that israeli soldiers had shot arab protesters in the back since arab riots began dec. 8 in the occupied west bank and gaza strip
on visits to two hospitals in the occupied territories, kinnock said, he saw seven palestinians hospitalized with bullet wounds in the back
he said he expressed his concern about the use of modified bullets and the back wounds to israeli officials and ``it is possible that these tactics may be adjusted, are indeed possibly in the process of being adjusted now.''
kinnock arrived in israel after visits to jordan and egypt, and has toured both the west bank and gaza
a book collector has written a happy ending to a dying man's quest for a rare book to complete his collection of works by western novelist zane grey
mack landers' quest for a copy of ``don, the story of a lion dog,'' of which only an estimated 100 copies exist in this country, got national publicity when syndicated columnist bob greene wrote about him
after hearing about landers, dr. james h. vickers, president of the national zane grey's west society in ijamsville, md., sent a copy to greene, who will deliver it to landers on sunday at his home in this fort worth suburb
anybody that thought that much of zane grey, i'm happy to send it to him,'' vickers, 57, said thursday. ``i hope he gets a lot of enjoyment out of it.''
doctors gave landers, 73, less than three months to live in january, after they found that cancer had spread in his body
landers was near tears when he learned that a copy of ``don'' soon would be added to his 92-book collection of grey's books
i don't have the vocabulary to express how i really feel,'' said landers. ``i know it's true, but i can't believe i'm going to get it. it's wonderful that someone would do that for an old man.''
out of appreciation for greene's efforts, landers said he will accept the copy the chicago tribune columnist is delivering rather than one offered by a fort worth woman or those offered by people from california, colorado, connecticut and several other states
we're going to go with mr. greene because he was the one who instigated the story in the first place,'' said landers' wife, alliene. ``everyone is being so kind. we're real grateful.''
greene said he even was contacted by zane grey's granddaughter, who offered to give landers a copy
greene said he was surprised by the response to his column that appeared last week in about 200 newspapers
the books are starting to pop up,'' he said. ``it's been estimated to me that there are only about 100 in the country. we had no idea we'd have this kind of response.''
don'' is a limited-edition tale about a hunting expedition grey and friends took to the grand canyon area in the early 1920s. the men were hunting mountain lions, not to kill but to sell to zoos and circuses
about 350 students from tufts university will discuss the cold war and nuclear arms race in a classroom session with undergraduate counterparts in the soviet union via television, the school said
the march 5 teleconference is the first of three scheduled sessions between students from tufts and moscow state university in a jointly run course on the superpowers' arms buildup
tufts professor martin j. sherwin, course instructor and director of tufts' nuclear age history and humanities center, said the project coincides with the rise of glasnost, soviet leader mikhail gorbachev's policy of openness
given the new climate in the soviet union, this appears to be the right step at the right time,'' he said
an american panel of historians and foreign policy experts is scheduled to discuss the arms race with a panel of soviet counterparts
these programs will be lively discussions,'' sherwin said. ``panelists will be directed to engage in a dialogue rather than to present set pieces.''
students will have an opportunity to question both countries' panelists, he added
the first session will focus on the history of the nuclear age, including the consequences of the u.s. bombing of hiroshima and nagasaki in world war ii, the first united nations' arms control debates and the origins of the cold war, sherwin said
the 1962 cuban missile crisis and current nuclear policy issues _ including the u.s. strategic defense initiative program, the geneva arms talks and the december signing of an intermediate range missile reduction treaty _ will be discussed at april 9 and april 30 sessions. places</head>
a rundown housing project that some critics say should be razed has been placed on the national register of historic place, a move hailed by residents and other opponents of demolition
thank the lord,'' shirley johnson, treasurer of the allen parkway village residents council, said after getting word of the decision wednesday
i just hope this helps to end all that demolishing business. this is my home, and although a lot of the project is boarded-up now, it could some day be home to a lot of the homeless who have no shelter,'' she said
however, a texas historical commission official said the designation doesn't mean the project won't be demolished
the national register's austin office was notified wednesday by the national parks service, which makes the final determination, that the project had been put on the register, said marlene casarez, the office's administrator
the project was nominated for the designation by stephen fox of the anchorage foundation of texas, which backs architectural preservation and architectural history projects
the project is architecturally significant because ``it is a very fine example of modern architecture design in the field of public housing,'' fox said. the project was built in 1942 and 1944 as housing for war-industry workers and their families
allen parkway also met the state and national registers' standards of being a significant example of community planning and for social and humanitarian purposes, he said
about 130 mainly black and vietnamese families live in the 1,000-unit project today
as other residents moved out, the city's housing authority sealed the empty units in anticipation of federal approval of a plan to raze the project and sell the prime 37.5-acre tract west of downtown for development. this could still be done, officials said
everyone has to understand that listing in the national register is no protection per se,'' said jim steely, director of national register programs for the texas historical commission
but it does ensure that documentation will exist for posterity showing that allen parkway was here and that it was important in the history of houston, of texas and of the nation.''
steely said texas preservationists will work with the advisory council on historic preservation, an independent agency set up by the federal government, to monitor the spending of any federal funds on allen parkway. him</head>
a man has been charged with shooting his wife to death two months after she asked prosecutors to treat him leniently on charges that he had wounded her, officials said
linda joyce hubert, 26, was found dead in her apartment thursday shortly after neighbors heard several shots and saw a man get into a car and speed away
kenneth leon hubert, 27, surrendered to police a few hours later and was charged with murder. he was ordered held without bond
homicide sgt. jerry novak said hubert surrendered after hearing he was being sought and that hubert insisted he is innocent
hubert had been free on $5,000 bond on an attempted murder charge in the dec. 18 wounding of his wife, and on $2,000 bond on a charge of kidnapping his girlfriend in november
ms. hubert asked prosecutors for leniency and said she would not testify against her husband about the dec. 18 shooting
she wanted us to offer the guy probation,'' assistant harris county district attorney mike anderson said. ``we contacted her and she said: `oh, no, he just needs help. i don't want to prosecute unless he'll get help instead of prison time.'''
she seemed very forgiving,'' he added
the huberts had been separated for about three years. a neighbor said hubert often drove by the apartment where ms. hubert lived with her two sons, ages 2 and 9
i thought the husband was a boyfriend trying to make up with her, because he was always coming around harassing her,'' ola aubrey said. ``he would come every day and stay in that car and blow his horn. she would just stay inside. she would never let him in her apartment.''
anderson said he had two other cases this week in which women injured by their husbands refused to testify against them
rhonda gerson, director of aid to victims of domestic violence, a non-profit agency in houston that offers legal information and services, said various things influence a woman's decision not to testify against her husband
she may feel that she's the one sending him to jail, rather than his own behavior,'' ms. gerson said. ``or she doesn't want the father of her children in prison
sometimes, there is a lot of fear and intimidation'' from the husband not to testify, she added. or, a woman may be hoping to reconcile with the husband and doesn't want to make matters worse by testifying against him
or she may be afraid of what's going to happen when he comes out (of prison),'' said ms. gerson, who was not involved in ms. hubert's case
a hot-air balloon billed as the world's largest strained into the air carrying as many as 60 people at a time friday in a bid for the record books, even though it was firmly tethered to the ground
the balloon, the super maine, is bigger even than the virgin atlantic flyer hot-air balloon which crossed the atlantic last summer
it was immense, it was incredible,'' said gary lovell, who flew a regular-sized hot-air balloon alongside the super maine. ``it was very impressive being in the air next to something that large and be a fellow balloon. i've had 747s go overhead before; this would dwarf that.''
the super maine, 10 to 20 percent larger in volume than the flyer, established its flying ability by rising 50 feet off frozen sebago lake with 25 people aboard. it remained aloft, tethered to ropes, for about five minutes while 100 or so balloon enthusiasts watched
everything's come together almost perfectly, ... we're very happy,'' project coordinator and chief pilot tom handcock said after the flight, which he hoped would earn an entry in the guinness book of records
you can only do so much with good planning and a lot of it is up to mother nature, and mother nature cooperated,'' he added
after the initial flight, organizers took the balloon up several more times, adding more and more people to its 8-by-12-foot gondola. at one point, 60 people were in the basket, with one man hanging onto the side while the balloon lifted off the ground a few feet, said one organizer, ruth ludwig
the virgin atlantic flyer carried crew members richard branson and per linstrand 2,789.6 miles from carrabassett valley, maine, to a brief touchdown in ireland last july
the designers, builders and supporters of the 210-foot-high, 168-foot-wide super maine simply wanted to construct a balloon that was larger in volume than the flyer. the super maine was built to hold 2.6 million cubic feet of hot air, between 300,000 and 500,000 cubic feet more than the 195-foot-high flyer, handcock said
lovell said he could fit 40 regular-sized balloons, which are the size of two or three tractor-trailer trucks, inside the super maine
the balloonists could not release the ropes holding the craft to the ground because organizers did not complete federal aviation administration paperwork in time to launch a free flight
no one seemed to mind
the thing went great. we wish we could have flown it away, but our good old government wasn't into that,'' said brian boland, a burlington, conn., resident who has designed and flown hot-air balloons for 17 years
the champagne corks are poppin' left and right,'' boland said in a post-flight telephone interview from a nearby bar. ``it's an incredible thing. everybody's just glowing.''
the balloon and gondola, which cost a total of $7,000, were built with the help of volunteers, mainly commercial balloon pilots from new england, kentucky, maryland and canada. they assembled the balloon in four days last month in a massachusetts warehouse and trucked it to maine
handcock said he probably will not attempt to assemble the balloon again for another launch, citing the time and work involved, but offered to permit other pilots with the skill and knowledge required to give it a try
we (did) it mostly for our personal pleasure _ just to say we flew the largest balloon in the world,'' he said. ``i know that doesn't make sense. but it's a long winter up here.''
president reagan named former cabinet secretaries caspar weinberger and drew lewis on friday to a commission charged with seeking ways to reduce the federal budget deficit
completing the makeup of the bipartisan panel, senate republican leader bob dole and house republican leader robert michel also appointed members. democrats announced their members late last year
dole chose sen. pete domenici, r-n.m., ranking republican on the senate budget committee, and dean kleckner, president of the american farm bureau federation
michel selected rep. bill frenzel, r-minn., a member of the house ways and means committee, and donald rumsfeld, a former defense secretary and congressmen who also served as director of the office of economic oportunity and as white house chief of staff under president ford
the panel, known as the national economic commission, is supposed to issue a report on march 1, 1989, after reagan has left office
lewis, now the head of union pacific corp., was reagan's first secretary of transportation. weinberger was reagan's secretary of defense for seven years
in a statement announcing the appointments, the president said, ``i believe when all aspects of the budget are reviewed the primary policy problem will be viewed not as a lack of revenues, but an inexorable growth in spending
over the last seven years, revenues have increased by $250 billion but spending has increased by $325 billion,'' he said
and while defense has necessarily grown, it accounted for only $125 billion, or less than 40 percent of the increase.''
president reagan defended his tax and budget policies friday in an election-year economic report to congress, saying his administration had turned economic despair into hope
reagan's seventh annual economic report brushed off accusations by democratic presidential candidates that a $2.4 trillion national debt and record trade imbalances during the reagan years had hobbled the country and eventually would reduce americans' standard of living
beryl sprinkel, the president's chief economic adviser, said the new economic report was aimed at debunking ``myths'' that the country had become a second-rate economic power
he said that in reality the united states had out-performed the rest of the world, producing 2{ times the number of jobs as the other top six industrialized countries combined since the end of the 1981-82 recession
the president, in an eight-page introduction to this year's report, said the country is in a lot better shape than when he took office seven years ago
it is hard to believe that at the beginning of the 1980s, the prevailing attitude toward the economy could best be described as despair,'' the president said. ``inflation and interest rates had ratcheted higher with each successive business cycle and ... the goal of sustainable growth appeared increasingly elusive.''
in a theme sure to be sounded by the eventual republican presidential nominee, the report asserted, ``the past five years of sustained and vigorous growth in production, income and employment did not occur by accident. they were shaped by government policies explicitly directed toward fostering the inherent dynamism of the private sector.''
the report sought to downplay any problems associated with the doubling of the national debt under reagan and the string of foreign trade deficits that has transformed the united states from the largest creditor country to the largest debtor nation
the country's debt to the rest of the world stands at around $400 billion, the amount of foreign holdings in the united states that exceed american investments in other countries
sprinkel, in a briefing for reporters, said that the net payments to foreigners needed to service the country's foreign debt represented just 0.1 percent of the $4.6 trillion u.s. economy
disaster does not loom in our future. this current level of (international) indebtedness is not worrisome,'' he said. ``the argument that we can't grow and make economic progress because we are debt-ridden is wrong.''
sprinkel said that the recent string of three consecutive declines in the index of leading indicators was signaling slower growth in the first half of 1988 but not a recession this year
he also discounted recent big declines in housing construction in december and january, a key economic sector that is often the first to turn down at the start of a new recession
sprinkel blamed the housing declines on a too-restrictive monetary policy being pursued by the federal reserve in the months before the record collapse of stock prices that occured last oct. 19
sprinkel said by late spring construction should start rising again in response to recent declines in mortgage rates, which have now dipped back to single-digit levels, falling to 9.84 percent last week
a draft version of the president's economic report was critical of the federal reserve for tightening credit conditions in december, after initially pumping money into the economy immediately following the stock market crash
however, the final version of the report said that more recent actions of the fed this year indicate the central bank is again promoting lower interest rates as a way of stimulating economic growth
sprinkel said he was now satisfied with the fed's performance, calling their action in the past six weeks ``quite appropriate.''
the economic report claimed that significant progress has been made in reducing both the budget and trade deficits and predicted further gains on both fronts
sprinkel predicted that an improving trade deficit would provide about half of the country's overall economic growth this year, which the administration is forecasting will slow to a 2.4 percent, as measured by the gross national product. that is down from 3.8 percent in 1987
the president repeated his warnings that congress should not try to reduce the trade deficit by passing either of the omnibus trade bills now being considered by a house-senate conference committee
reagan said unless the measures were substantially modified he would veto the legislation because of objectionable protectionist provisions
the president also repeated his pledge, made in his state of the union address, to veto another 11th-hour, catchall spending bill such as the one passed by congress last december
in a chapter on airline deregulation, the report maintained that consumers are reaping a $15 billion annual windfall in lower fares. it said that while a 28 percent increase in the number of flights had raised concerns about safety, accidents had declined steadily since 1978
the ohio supreme court unveiled a continuing legal education program thursday that would require some 35,000 attorneys in the state to head back to school to keep their licenses
chief justice thomas moyer said the new rule, adopted unanimously by the high court, requires every attorney to complete 24 hours of legal education every two years beginning in 1990
lawyers who fail to comply could be faced with fines of up to $500 and even suspension from practice
ohio is the 30th state to adopt such a program, which moyer said would maintain and improve the quality of legal services
let me say that this is not a panacea,'' moyer said at a news conference. ``... but what it means is that we are making a minimum effort to assure people who use the services of lawyers that the lawyer they employ has been required to stay current.''
the rule was developed in cooperation with several state attorney groups. representatives of four of them who joined moyer at the briefing welcomed the court's action
joseph cook of akron, president of the ohio state bar association, said the requirement would not be a burden to most attorneys: ``most laywers have already been getting more (continuing education) than the rule requires.''
he said attorneys probably could meet their yearly requirements by attending seminars sponsored by the state bar at its annual meeting
the rule establishes, effective july 1, a supreme court commission on continuing legal education that will administer and accredit the programs
the program will be financed by a $15 filing fee. prisoner</head>
two convicted killers testified friday as character witnesses for a fellow convict trying to avoid the death penalty, telling the jury that the man lent them money and aided them with other acts of kindness
james ernest hitchcock, 31, was convicted and sentenced to death for the 1976 rape-murder of his 13-year-old stepniece, cynthia driggers. the u.s. supreme court ordered a new sentencing hearing last april
inmates darrell edwin hoy and arthur rutherford, wearing solid blue prison uniforms, were brought into the courtroom in chains and handcuffs that were removed before the jury was seated
the short, stocky rutherford, 38, awaiting death in the electric chair for a 1986 murder in santa rosa county, said hitchcock helped him upon rutherford's arrival on death row by lending him money to buy tobacco and other items
hoy, soft-voiced and polite, said he and hitchcock had side-by-side cells on death row for three years in the early 1980s and that hitchcock had given him his radio after hoy's was stolen, that he had lent him money and had helped him study to get a general education degree
on the death penalty, hoy said, ``i feel that's wrong for certain reasons, if i may say so.''
hoy was convicted in pinellas county of raping a teen-ager in front of her fiance and then shooting and killing them both. his sentence was overturned, and he was removed from death row in 1984
asked by prosecutor belvin perry for his views on the death penalty, rutherford sat up straight, crossed his arms, raised his voice and replied, ``i'm in florida state prison on hearsay _ no evidence, no nothin' ... i'm against it.''
extraordinary security measures were in place at the orange county courthouse, where a shootout several years ago left one bailiff dead and three people wounded, including the gunman
among the 50 courtroom spectators were 10 armed deputies in civilian clothes. another dozen uniformed and armed guards accompanied the prisoners or were posted at the front and sides of the courtroom
defense lawyers had argued for the appearance of the present and former death row prisoners because hitchcock had spent a third of his life on death row
circuit judge gary formet told attorneys he would not permit them to disclose the nature of the prisoners' crimes
hitchcock spent more than a decade in a cell just a few feet from florida's electric chair before his sentence was overturned
the 12 jurors are getting a shortened version of trial testimony and then hearing more than 20 witnesses testify for and against hitchcock in his effort to escape the chair. the jury's recommendation _ life or death _ is only advisory to the judge
one of hitchcock's two public defenders, robert wesley, told the jury in his opening remarks that the defendant's brother, richard _ the victim's stepfather _ beat and strangled the girl after he found hitchcock and the girl having sex
wesley said his client ``is not saying he is innocent. ... he participated in the crime. but he asks to live his life in prison.''
richard hitchcock took the witness stand earlier and denied that he killed his stepdaughter
the jury also heard a tape-recorded confession by james hitchcock in which he admitted raping and killing the girl. he later recanted the confession, claiming it was given under duress because he was held for four days in solitary confinement
stars and searchlights added a touch of hollywood to friday's opening of the first-ever american film festival here, but a clutter of ticket-seekers and security men lent the event a distinctive soviet air
more than 30 major american films are to be shown in seven moscow and leningrad theaters through march 2, ranging from the 1939 classic fantasy ``the wizard of oz'' to last year's sensitive portrayal of a deaf woman learning survival in ``children of a lesser god.''
actor richard gere, puppeteer jim hensen, actress daryl hannah and a cast of other hollywood figures added to the glitter attracting mobs of muscovites to the floodlit rossiya theater
i love all american films. they're great,'' said 37-year-old ina pozdnyakova, as she stood outside the theater pleading each passerby for the chance to buy a spare ticket. she didn't even know what film was to be shown
asked whether the ticket distribution system is fair, she snapped back: ``absolutely not.''
the festival was announced in this week's edition of leisure time in moscow, but the times and theaters where specific films were to be shown have not been made public
guides listing the films, participating theaters, guests and workshops were released only hours before the opening and only for organizers and foreign visitors
other films to be shown during the festival include ``a chorus line,'' ``an officer and a gentleman,'' ``singin' in the rain'' and ``king's row,'' a 1942 film regarded as ronald reagan's best
nearly every western cultural offering in moscow draws overflow crowds, though the festivals and concerts are given little, if any, publicity in the state-run press
the well-developed gossip grapevine and an entrenched system of favor-trading ensure that connections far outweigh currency in securing entrance to a popular event
festival spokesman peter fleischer said fair distribution of tickets for the films, selected by the private american groups and entertainers who organized the festival, had been agreed to by the soviets
fleischer said he was led to believe about 50 percent of the tickets went to the general public, but said the americans had no control over ticket sales
of course we can't satisfy all those who want tickets,'' said alexander i. kamshalov, head of the soviet state committee on cinematography, serving as host for the festival
in the minus 5-degree chill outside the rossiya, alyona narishkina shivered and stamped her feet
sure you can get tickets through your work enterprise, if they happen to get any and you manage to find out in time,'' ms. narishkina, a lawyer who waited for more than an hour friday night for tickets to ``roxanne.''
circling among the ticket-seekers were a handful of young men who had bought up some of the $2.60 tickets from those with extras
they conducted a brisk business reselling them for about three times the price to the film buffs. the scalpers moved about warily, avoiding the gaze of plainclothes policemen always stationed where crowds assemble
a sign outside the rossiya gave no indication when tickets for other films would be on sale, but assured would-be buyers that 45 percent of the seats are sold in public kiosks. half are distributed to unspecified enterprises and 5 percent are reserved for decorated heroes, war veterans and invalids, the sign explained
those with tickets for the opening night film were more supportive of the current system
you can always find out what is playing if you want to,'' explained slava belyankin, an 18-year-old student. ``you just have to be patient.''
a beer bottle packed with gunpowder exploded friday and injured five madrid university students, one seriously, police said
police said the bottle exploded in a first-floor bathroom of the university's chemistry department during non-class hours at midday, apparently while the group took part in a prank
joaquin francisco pereda gomez, 22, underwent surgery for serious injuries to his hand at clinico hospital in madrid. a hospital spokeswoman quoted doctors as saying he later may have to have his hand amputated
the others were treated for minor eye and ear injuries and released, the spokeswoman said
a soviet news commentator on friday accused u.s. arms negotiators in geneva of trying to make a ``massive departure'' from an understanding on space defenses reached during the superpower summit
vladimir bogachev blamed the united states for what he called a worsening atmosphere at the geneva talks. the commentary was distributed by the official tass news agency two days before the arrival of secretary of state george p. shultz
among other issues, shultz is to discuss with soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev and other top officials efforts to cut the superpowers' long-range missiles by 50 percent
the soviet union argues that an understanding on president reagan's ``star wars'' program for a space-based missile defense must be a part of the agreement
they say reagan and gorbachev reached a basis for agreement on strategic weapons and space defenses during their december summit meeting in washington
in recent weeks the situation at the talks has noticeably worsened,'' bogachev said. ``the u.s. side is trying to effect a massive departure from the accords which are explicitly spelled out in the joint statement at the summit level.''
the soviet union claims the ``star wars'' program is a violation of the 1972 anti-ballistic missile treaty
the u.s. delegation in geneva is acting as though reagan and gorbachev did not make any connection between strategic weapons and space defenses in their talks in december, bogachev said
the militarization of outer space according to the `star wars' plans will lead to a sharp destabilization of the military-political situation in the world,'' he said. ``militarization of outer space and a cut in strategic offensive weapons on earth are incompatible.''
he said the united states also was seeking to arm long-range sea-based missiles with conventional warheads, even though the non-nuclear warheads can be replaced quickly with nuclear charges. dollars</head>
federal police said friday they won't allow foreign investigators to join the search for $8 million stolen from a commercial flight that originated in new york
geovani azevedo, federal police spokesman in rio de janeiro, told the associated press, ``if we discover foreign investigators working on this case, we will expell them. this includes fbi agents.''
on thursday it was revealed that two canvas sacks containing $4 million each in u.s. currency were separated from a shipment of 13 such bags. the bags were being flown from new york to buenos aires, aregentina and contained a total of $52 million
central bank officials said the money was being sent by the united states to help argentina pay foreign bonds but that it was insured and the loss wouldn't hurt argentina
the bags were loaded as personal baggage on a varig flight out of kennedy international airport on feb. 5 and arrived at rio's international airport, where they were to be transferred to another varig flight to buenos aires
varig is brazil's national carrier, but brink's, the u.s.-based security company, was imn charge of the shipment
varig said a passenger known only as mr. denisco paid standard overweight charges for the bags and that brink's was in charge of transfering them from one plane to another in the airplane parking area at rio's international airport
the baggage never entered the terminal. brink's was entirely responsible for the operation,'' a varig communique said
brazil's federal police chief, romeu tuma, said thursday night, ``there obviously was a security failure.'' he said he also wanted to know ``why we only heard about this disappearance two weeks later.''
the money came from the u.s. federal reserve bank in new york. the other $44 million arrived safely in buenos aires
a 21-year-old sailor whose cargo boat overturned in the caribbean sea survived eight days floating on a raft with shipmates who suffered a ``psychosis'' and bit him, authorities said
the sailor's eight shipmates died
authorities said an unidentified west german vessel brought the sailor, jorge eliezer torres mejias, to puerto rico wednesday after rescuing him earlier this week
torres mejias was released thursday from puerto rico's medical center and was turned over to teresa berardinelli, colombia's consular officer in puerto rico
torres mejias was not available for an interview, despite several attempts to reach him at the colombian diplomatic office in san juan
details of what happened tothe sailor are sketchy. the u.s. coast guard office in san juan could only confirm that torres mejias had been brought to puerto rico and had received medical attention
dr. carlos gomez marcial, medical director at the puerto rico medical center, said torres mejias told him that he and the eight others left barranquilla, colombia, for another coastal town carrying a load of food on a cargo vessel, the marlon david. the craft overturned about 10 miles offshore and the nine boarded a raft
gomez marcial said ``apparently his eight friends suffered a general psychosis and they started to bite him.'' he quoted the young man as saying some threw themselves into the ocean and drowned. others died aboard the raft and he had to push the bodies overboard
the german ship spotted him at sea and rescued him
torres mejias suffered bite wounds on his arm and right hand, according to the doctor. he also suffered from dehydration and severe sunburn. reference to security concerns. deletes redundant material below pickup.</note>
pope john paul ii on friday blamed the rivalry between east and west for social and economic ills in the third world and delivered a sweeping indictment of totalitarianism, materialism and the ``all-consuming desire for profit.''
in his seventh encyclical, the pope accused both the u.s.- and soviet-led blocs of imposing ``imperialism'' and ``structures of sin'' on developing nations, reducing them to ``cogs on a gigantic wheel.''
he also said the rivalry between the east and west was main reason for the widening gap between rich and poor countries
an unacceptably exaggerated concern for security ... deadens the impulse toward united cooperation by all,'' he said
this obsession, he said, works to ``the detriment especially of peaceful peoples who are impeded from their rightful access to the goods meant for all.''
the encyclical called for reform of the international financial system and said the church could do its part by selling its ``superfluous'' goods to help the poor
the 102-page document also called for democratic political change in nations with corrupt, dictatorial or authoritarian governments
the pope said the church took a critical view of both liberal capitalism and marxist collectivism, saying both systems are imperfect and in need of urgent ``radical correction.''
the encyclical, titled in latin ``sollicitudo rei socialis,'' or the social concern of the church, included some of the strongest statements on social and economic issues made by john paul during his 9{ years as pope
an encyclical is a formal pastoral letter written by the pope for the entire church. while encyclicals are not infallible pronouncements, catholics are expected to heed the message
the pope said his letter was addressed to all followers of the world's great religions
the letter painted a bleak picture of the process of development since the publication of pope paul vi's encyclical ``development of peoples'' in 1967
twenty years later, hopes for development ``appear very far from being realized,'' and for many poor people ``the situation has noticeably worsened,'' john paul said
a vatican official familiar with the drafting of the encyclical said it reflected the pope's polish background and addressed issues facing people living in the soviet bloc that were not raised in paul vi's document
breaking new ground, john paul singled out east-west rivalry as the cause of many of the world's problems
the conflicts ... between east and west (are) an important cause of the retardation or stagnation of the south,'' he wrote. ``the developing countries, instead of becoming autonomous nations concerned with their own progress ... become parts of a machine, cogs on a gigantic wheel.''
the present division of the world,'' the document added, ``is a direct obstacle to the real transformation of the conditions of underdevelopment in the developing and less advanced countries.''
world peace is inconceivable unless the world's leaders come to recognize that interdependence in itself demands the abandonment of the politics of blocs, the sacrifice of all forms of economic, military or political imperialism, and the transformation of mutual distrust into collaboration.''
in an apparent reference to conditions in his native poland, the pope complained of the suppression of economic initiative, which leads people to emigrate, and the denial of political and economic sovereignty in some countries
condemning totalitarianism, he said, ``no social group, for example a political party, has the right to usurp the role of sole leader.''
the pope said the church itself should avoid accumulating ``superfluous church oranments and costly furnishings for divine worship.''
on the contrary it could be obligatory to sell these goods in order to provide food, drink, clothing and shelter for those who lack these things,'' he said
cadinal roger etchegary said the statement was mainly symbolic, recalling the time john paul gave away his pastoral ring during a trip to brazil. etchegary, president of the vatican's justice and peace commission, spoke at a news conference
the pope lamented the overemphasis on economic development, writing, ``development which is merely economic ... will end by enslaving (mankind) further.''
the document denounced the phenomenon of ``superdevelopment,'' or the excessive availability of material goods in some areas that makes people ``slaves of possession.''
it also condemned ``all-consuming desire for profit'' and ``thirst for power'' that afflicts both individuals and nations
if certain forms of modern imperialism were considered ... we would see that hidden behind certain decisions, apparently inspired only by economics or politics, are real forms of idolatry: of money, ideology, class, technology.'' plan</head>
congress' chief budget writers said friday that president reagan's conciliatory spending plan for fiscal 1989 should make for the least contentious and most bipartisan session since he took office
as he goes out the door, his last budget does what he railed against for seven years,'' house budget committee chairman william h. gray iii, d-pa., said, citing the restraints on defense spending and increases in many domestic programs in the $1.1 trillion plan
reagan actually will prepare one more budget just before leaving office, although the next president will take over and put his stamp on it
gray said in an interview that this reagan budget was so much less hostile than his past efforts, some lawmakers were unsettled
people are so used to a set pattern ... battle lines drawn and grenades thrown,'' he said. they look at reagan's new plan and say, ``something is wrong here. ... what's going on?''
at a hearing of the senate budget committee, lawmakers questioned white house budget director james c. miller iii about the optimism behind reagan's projection of a $129.5 billion deficit in the fiscal year beginning oct. 1
all the hot-wired calculators in the country won't hide the fact that the deficits are still high, and the national debt is a monster,'' said committee chairman sen. lawton chiles, d-fla
miller assured lawmakers that the administration would work with congress this year. if official estimates due in august show the deficit is above the $146 billion threshold for automatic spending cuts under the gramm-rudman law, the white house will cooperate in solving the problem, miller said
chiles and others complimented the administration on the budget priorities, although making clear some changes will be made
after eight years, it looks like you've finally seen the light on education, drug enforcement, health and the environment,'' chiles said, noting increases in those areas
we're about ready to welcome you to the ranks of the faithful, even though you have a few more things to learn _ like how to restore the two-thirds you cut from programs to help the homeless,'' he said
sen. pete v. domenici, r-n.m., senior republican on the panel, said the president's plan ``set a formula for congress to act quickly on the budget and appropriations.''
if ever there was a year we could complete our work on time, it's this year,'' he said
the primary reason the president's budget is closer to congress' priorities is because of the deficit reduction pact reagan struck with congressional leaders last fall. the agreement set overall figures for pentagon, domestic and foreign aid spending in fiscal years 1988 and 1989
what we're doing now is the second stage'' of the agreement, gray said. ``the whole debate now is going to be over the small details of the domestic part'' of the budget, he said
gray said he would expect congress to add money back to the urban programs reagan wanted to cut, such as mass transit and housing
rep. charles rangel, the chairman of the house narcotics committee, said friday he was ``obliged to acknowledge that president reagan ... appears to be moving off the fence with respect to this country's drug crisis'' by asking for a 13 percent increase in those efforts
but the new york democrat criticized the package for not including money to help state and local governments with their drug eradication efforts. description of ibarruri.</note>
spanish communists opened their 12th congress friday amid uncertainty over who would lead the party out of its worst crisis since it returned to legal political activity 11 years ago
secretary general gerardo iglesias, a 43-year-old miner, has made it clear he will step down this year as head of the party that is fighting for its political life
fierce internal squabbling and poor electoral showings have caused a sharp decline in voter support and membership, party spokesman and political analysts say
the communist-oriented united left coalition holds only seven of the 350 seats in the spanish parliament, down from the 20 seats the communists held nlone after general elections in 1979
the party suffered another defeat with the announcement by julio anguita, leader of communists in southern andalucia, that he had made ``an irrevocable decision'' not to accept iglesia's job if nominated
both iglesias and 92-year-old honorary party president dolores ibarruri, the legendary ``la pasionaria'' who became a symbol of loyalist resistance to franco forces during the civil war in the 1930s, called on the 619 party delegates to work for greater unity among communists to face the current crisis
this congress should and can put an end to any hint of confusion, confirming the political unity and internal democracy of the spanish communist party,'' iglesias said in his opening speech friday
he $dded that the party had managed to overcome ``the most difficult problems, including the real threat of disappearing altogether.''
acco,ding to political scientist ramon garcia cotarelo, the lack of a clear-cut choice of a leader to replace iglesias was a sign that the party's top echelons had no confidence in the party's future
he said it would not be clear who the new party chief would be until sunday when party delegates choose the new 90-member central committee, and it elects a new secretary general
data made public friday showed that from its peak in 1979 through its sharp decline to 1983, the party lost 65 percent of its membership or 120,000 people. as the crisis deepened after 1985, membership has further declined from 67,400 to 62,300
in its heyday, the party was at the forefront of the eurocommunism movement, which advocated independence from the soviet union and democratic elections
the current imbroglio stems from iglesia's replacement of historic spanish communist leader santiago carrillo at the 11th congress in december 1983, after carrillo resigned following the party's electoral debacle in 1982 general elections
carrillo, 73, headed the party from 1960 to 1982 and was a main proponent of eurocommunism. he led the spanish party in its clandestine years from exile in paris and after it was legalized in 1977, two years after the death of gen. francisco franco ended the 36-year military dictatorship
the party reached its zenith in 1979 when it got 10 percent of the vote. but in the 1982 general elections the socialist party headed by prime minister felipe gonzalez swept into power with a landslide victory, while the communists got only 3.8 percent of the ballots
the debacle led to carrillo's resignation and the ascendance of iglesias, his young protege
but when iglesias attempted to move the party away from its base among the working class to weave together emerging non-communist social movements such as pacifists and ecologists, the two leaders clashed
in 1985, the party ousted carrillo and many of his followers
attempts in the last two years to overcome their differences and to bring carillo and his supporters back into the fold have failed, costing the party prestige and votes, garcia cotarelo said
comedian jonathan winters has been admitted to st. francis hospital following what was described as a bad fall, and is expected to remain there until saturday
winters, 62, who lives in santa barbara, was admitted to the hospital thursday afternoon. no further details were provided as to what caused the fall, where it occurred or what type of injuries he suffered
a statement from winters' wife, issued through the hospital, said simply that the comedian ``had suffered a bad fall and was doing well'' and was expected to be home saturday
delivering mail to cluster boxes instead of to the door or a curbside mailbox saves the postal service more than $11 million annually, the general accounting office reported friday
cluster boxes are centralized mailbox groupings used in many apartment and townhouse developments, and some new residential areas. they allow letter carriers to deliver mail for several homes at one spot, saving time on their rounds
the gao, which does investigations for congress, studied the use of the boxes at the request of reps. william d. ford, d-mich., mickey leland, d-texas, and robert garcia, d-n.y
the report covered fiscal 1985, when about 1.9 million of the 53 million daily city mail deliveries involved cluster boxes
according to the study, in areas of detached homes, delivering mail to a cluster box instead of to a curbside mailbox saved about $10 per customer, for a saving of $4.5 million
in townhouse sections, the postal service saved about $11 per customer by delivering to clusterboxes instead of to mailboxes located by the door of the home. that netted a saving of $6.9 million, the report said
for low-rise apartment buildings, the cost of delivering to a cluster box was about the same as bringing mail to a group of boxes in the lobby
the parents of convicted spy jonathan j. pollard said friday that navy investigators showed him a list of names of 25 american jews and asked him to identify those who helped him commit espionage for israel
they kept badgering him to indicate which of those on the list was involved in the spy plot,'' said morris pollard, a professor of microbiology at the university of notre dame
both the senior pollard and his son denied that jonathan pollard had an accomplice in spying for israel. their statement came after the washington post reported friday that government investigators had concluded that someone in the cia or defense department also had spied for israel
justice department sources, speaking on condition of anonymity, said there are differing views within the department on the question of whether there is another spy. while there appear to be some solid indications that there was another operative, some officials have doubts about whether that is the case, said the sources
neither the navy nor the justice department or its bureau of prisons had any immediate comment on the pollards' charges
we can neither confirm nor deny this,'' said lt. janet mescus, a spokesman for the navy. ``at this point, we have no comment.''
justice department spokesman terry eastland also declined comment
the post story, by reporters bob woodward and walter pincus, quoted unidentified sources as saying government investigators have dubbed the alleged second spy ``mr. x.''
but jonathan pollard, a former civilian intelligence analyst for the navy who was sentenced in march to life in prison, said he knew of no ``mr. x.'' he admitted selling american defense secrets to israel over a period of 15 months until his arrest in november 1985 outside the israeli embassy in washington
his wife, anne henderson-pollard, was sentenced to five years in prison for helping him
i gave no information suggesting the existence of a mr. x in government,'' pollard said in a statement he telephoned from prison to his mother, who conveyed it to the associated press. under a plea-bargaining agreement, pollard is not allowed direct contact with the news media
this was confirmed by nine months of polygraphing. having said that, i obviously have no knowledge of whether any other person or persons was helping israel,'' the statement said
pollards' parents said their son had been held in a psychiatric ward at the federal prison in springfield, mo., for 10 months as navy investigators tried to force him to implicate others
pollard's parents said the authorities hoped to ``break'' their son by surrounding him with mental patients. his attorney, richard hibey, said, however, he believed the idea was to keep him in protected surroundings to prevent him rom revealing national security secrets
george diffenbaucher, head of the penitentiary's social services department, said pollard was assigned to the diagnostic and observation unit, a psychological evaluation and treatment unit. he said pollard was not ``a mental patient'' but ``there are other considerations for keeping him there.''
hibey said the prosecutors had told him they were satisfied that pollard had told them all he knew about the affair during nine months of polygraph exams and debriefings
no evidence has been developed yet that points to the specific identity of a second person, the post said, citing unidentified sources for its information
pollard's mother, molly pollard, said that when a list of 25 names was shown to him and he was told they were prominent members of the american jewish community, he recognized only one name. she did not know what that name was
in the prison mental ward, pollard is ``surrounded by demented, screaming people'' in a cell that measures six by nine feet, his father charged. ``they hoped to break him,'' he said. diffenbaucher, asked if that charge was true, said, ``of course not. break him of what?''
the prison authorities ``told us they were upset with his being in a mental ward. they said it was like kgb tactics,'' said the father. ``but they also said they could not do anything about it because they had orders from the navy to keep him there.''
morris pollard wrote to rep. lee hamilton, d-ind., asking him to intercede on his son's behalf
an aide in hamilton's office, who asked not to be identified, said the congressman promised he would try to help. ``he felt pollard should not be discriminated against compared with other prisoners,'' the aide said
in his statement, pollard said the post based its report on claims by justice department officials ``who could not prove the existence of such a person on the basis of fact. so now, they are simply inventing him or her out of thin air and hoping to give their spectral image an air of substance.''
the post said the belief that a mr. x must exist grew out of a massive debriefing and polygraphing of pollard over many months
pollard told authorities that his israeli handlers often specified by date and control number the highly sensitive u.s. documents they wanted him to acquire, the newspaper said
the handlers once showed pollard a top-secret u.s. document to which he did not have access, the post said. it identified the document as an index or catalog that pollard then could use to obtain other documents from u.s. intelligence agencies
investigators concluded that another american _ ``mr. x'' _ had provided that index and other specific information on u.s. secrets that pollard learned from his israeli handlers, the newspaper said
madame chiang kai-shek made a brief visit friday to the mausoleum of president chiang ching-kuo, her stepson who died last month at the age of 77, the official news agency reported
the 86-year-old madame chiang, accompanied by unidentified family members, prayed in silence before chiang's bronze coffin at the tahsi mausoleum in a small rural town 30 miles southwest of taipei, the central news agency reported
the news agency said madame chiang made her first visit to the mausoleum shortly after she visited the mausoleum of generalissimo chiang kai-shek, the late president's father who died in 1975
the two mausoleums are a little more than a mile apart
madame chiang did not attend her stepson's funeral on jan. 30, three days after newspapers linked her to an unsuccessful last-ditch effort to delay newly installed president lee teng-hui from being appointed head of the ruling nationalist party
chiang ching-kuo had tapped lee as his successor
madame chiang, who is chairman of the ruling party's central advisory committee, also did not appear at earlier memorial services for chiang ching-kuo
she left taiwan for a mansion on long island in new york soon after her husband's death, reportedly because of difference in opinion with her stepson. she returned in 1986 to attend ceremonies marking the late generalissimo's 100th birthday
yuri ovchinnikov, a leading soviet biologist and vice president of the country's prestigious academy of sciences, has died at the age of 53, it was reported friday
ovchinnikov died wednesday after an unspecified ``grave and long illness,'' the official news agency tass said
he led research into the creation of gene-engineering interferons, insulin, and other medical preparations, and he was chairman of the federation of european biochemical societies, tass said
in addition to his position in the academy of sciences, ovchinnikov was an alternate member of the communist party's central committee and a member of the presidium of the russian republic's supreme soviet, or parliament. lifting of syrian sanction; subs pvs 10th graf, ``another u.s.,'' to delete outdated matter</note>
secretary of state george p. shultz ``most likely'' will visit syria when he goes to the middle east next week and is leaving his options open for a return to the region after a nato summit meeting in early march, u.s. officials said friday
as shultz set out for moscow on a trip in which he will seek soviet backing for his peace-making venture, his mideast journey was taking on dramatic new proportions
shultz's purpose in going to damascus would be to discuss the u.s. drive for arab-israeli negotiations with president hafez assad, whose support for any long-term settlement in the middle east is considered essential by specialists in the state department's near east bureau
reinforcing the impression that u.s.-syrian relations are warming was a disclosure friday by state department spokeswoman phyllis oakley that one of several sanctions the united states has imposed against syria has been ended
she said security clearance requirements on syrian applicants for u.s. visas have been lifted. under the sanction, all such applicants had been subjected to lengthy background checks to qualify for a visa
a visit by shultz to damascus would be a major prestige boost to syria and mark an improvement in its relations with the united states. the country is one of six listed by the state department as a supporter of terrorism, and president reagan imposed sanctions against it in november 1986
in that action, reagan banned the sale of sophisticated technology, such as computers, aircraft and related spare parts; ended the financing of exports to syria by the u.s. export-import bank; canceled the u.s.-syrian air transport agreement; reduced the u.s. embassy staff in damascus and pressured american oil companies to halt their operations in syria
the state department had linked syria to some 40 incidents of terrorism. reagan said the sanctions were intended to express ``outrage'' at what he called syria's involvement in international terrorism _ charges the syrians denied
among the punitive measures was a ban on high-level meetings with syrians. but shultz sent richard w. murphy, the head of the near east bureau, to damascus two weeks ago to confer with assad
u.s. ambassador william eagleton was sent back to his post in damascus last september, after a year's absence, and u.n. ambassador vernon a. walters also visited the country
a u.s. official, who demanded anonymity, said shultz was ``most likely'' to schedule a stop in syria on his trip to the middle east beginning next thursday
another official said shultz was ``leaving his options open'' to return to the area for a few days in early march
shultz plans to be in brussels with reagan for a summit meeting of the north atlantic treaty organization on march 2-3. but the official said shultz could go to the middle east from there if needed and then return to washington in time to greet visiting the chinese foreign minister on march 7
shultz's other stops next week will be egypt, jordan, israel and probably saudi arabia. he is trying to set up negotiations between israel and a mixed delegation of jordanians and palestinians to deal especially with the troubled west bank and gaza
the immediate aim is some form of self-rule for the 1.5 million palestinian arabs who have lived under israeli control since egypt and jordan lost the territories in the 1967 six-day war
the long-range goal is to hold a second stage of talks _ possibly in the format of an international peace conference _ by the end of the year to consider an overall settlement
shultz's separate trip to the soviet union began friday with a flight to helsinki, finland. he will be in moscow for talks sunday with foreign minister eduard a. shevardnadze and monday with shevardnadze and general secretary mikhail s. gorbachev
shultz is due to report to the nato countries in brussels on tuesday and return home for a brief rest before heading for the middle east
the middle east is one topic on the shultz's agenda for moscow. so is afghanistan, where gorbachev said he would begin a withdrawal of the red army over 10 months, beginning may 15, if a settlement is reached by march 15
shultz said thursday in a telecast to asia that he would ask for a timetable with ``definite proportions.'' he warned that u.s. aid to the afghan rebels would end only if the soviets stopped helping the kabul government
the afghan rebels have been at war with the kabul government since 1973. the soviets sent about 120,000 troops into the country to back the government in december 1979
shultz supported the establishment of an interim government, which pakistan has demanded before an agreement on a soviet troop withdrawal is signed. that would mean a coalition government acceptable to the guerrillas and to the afghan refugees, about 3 million of whom are in pakistan
in discussing the middle east in a separate voice of america interview, shultz indicated he was prepared to accept an active role for the soviets in the search for a settlement of the arab-israeli dispute
obviously, the soviet union is a major power, and we will have to see how this whole process develops,'' he said
israeli prime minister yitzhak shamir is resisting an active role in the middle east for the soviets, who do not have relations with his country and regularly support arab positions. shultz said on his last trip to jerusalem last october that he agreed with shamir
jordan and egypt, however, are demanding an international peace conference with the soviets participating. parties</head>
the democratic and republican parties will be forced to give serious consideration to the candidacies of jesse jackson and pat robertson despite labels that they are unelectable, says a former presidential candidate
people are saying that the candidates with the largest following, pat robertson and jesse jackson, have the lowest probability of success,'' shirley chisholm told a black history month audience thursday night
but whether you like them or not, their parties will just have to deal with them when the time comes because they'll both bring a large block of delegates to the convention,'' she said
robertson finished second among the republican candidates in the iowa caucuses and fifth in the new hampshire primary. jackson, a democrat, finished fourth in iowa and new hampshire
ms. chisholm, the first black woman ever to win a seat in the house of representatives, became known nationally for her fiery speeches and 1972 campaign for the democratic presidential nomination
she drew a crowd of about 300 people to the university of missouri-kansas city black history month activity on the campus
organizers of vice president george bush's campaign said friday they are confident of carrying massachusetts on super tuesday, but are running as if they're scared
i think it's important that the vice president win all of his six home states,'' ron kaufman, the bush political director for the northeast, told reporters in a wry reference to bush's claim to his massachusetts birth and his links to other states
we feel he'll do well here,'' kaufman said. but he said the campaign has done no polling that would help define ``well,'' and he refused to set a specific goal in the republican voting on march 8
on that day, republicans in 17 states _ most of them in the south _ will vote on their presidential preferences. fifty-two delegates are at stake in massachusetts
political contests are always a challenge,'' said andy card, who was bush's campaign manager in new hampshire, where the vice president won the primary. ``we're going to compete as if we're worried about massachusetts.''
tipper gore told a group of democratic women friday that her husband, tennessee sen. albert gore jr., would open a day care center in the white house if elected president
he must encourage corporations and businesses to respond to this very critical need,'' mrs. gore said during a campaign stop in huntsville
she said the next president must address the issue of working families and their children, and that means a day care center for white house employees
mrs. gore said that because of the increasing number of families with working parents, american society is currently ``placing a burden on our work force and our children.''
addressing about 60 members of the madison county women's democratic club in huntsville, mrs. gore steered clear of her crusade against pornographic rock lyrics and concentrated on family issues
i love rock and roll,'' mrs. gore told reporters after her speech. ``i grew up on it.''
a seven-officer marine corps jury friday acquitted marine cpl. lindsey scott in his second trial on charges he sexually assaulted and tried to kill the wife of a fellow marine in 1983
when the verdict was announced, scott turned to the jury and said, ``thank you, sirs.''
scott's mother screamed three times, ``thank you, jesus.''
later, scott told reporters, ``a weight that has been on my shoulders the last five years has been lifted.''
maj. ron mcneil, the marine prosecutor, said the investigation of the attack was closed
we'll probably never know what happened,'' he said after the verdict. ``after almost five years after the facts, the issue is dead.''
it took the jury 11 hours to reach the verdict on charges of rape, kidnapping, sodomy and attempted murder
scott, 32, of louisville, ky., had been convicted of the same charges in 1983 and sentenced to 30 years in prison. that verdict was overturned july 7 by the u.s. military court of appeals on grounds that scott had not received adequate counsel from his civilian attorney
although scott supporters have alleged racism was involved in the earlier conviction, because he is black and the victim white, scott said his feelings for the marine corps have not changed
the marines are the best fighting force in the world and the best branch of the service. there were six whites and one black on the jury. if it was racially motivated, i would have been convicted,'' scott said
during the 17 days of testimony, the defense attacked the naval investigation service's handling of the crime probe. john leino, one of scott's civilian attorneys, charged that investigators used an improper lineup and manipulated the victim into identifying scott
the defense presented witnesses who said the victim was uncertain when she picked scott from the lineups, and also identified other men as resembling her attacker
mcneil denied the investigation service conspired against scott
the victim positively identified scott as her assailant from the witness stand and picked scott from both a physical lineup and photographic lineup in 1983
also at issue was the testimony of cynthia ausby, a security guard at a woodbridge department store. she testified at the first trial that scott was in the department store, but could not remember the exact date
in the second trial, ms. ausby testified she was certain scott was in the store at the time the victim was attacked the night of april 20, 1983
mcneil said ms. ausby's sudden certainty was not credible, but the defense argued that ms. ausby's recollection was aided 10 months after the crime by her checking of store arrest records
ms. ausby said the records showed she had mistaken scott for a similarly dressed shoplifter she was pursuing the night of the assault. she also was aided by pictures of scott that were better than one shown her before the first trial by an nis agent
the victim of the attack, who now lives with her family in rochester, n.y., testified that she was lured from her off-base apartment by a telephone caller who said a marine would be over to give her a ride to her husband, who had been injured
her husband, another member of scott's battalion, was unhurt. she was driven by her escort to a remote section of the northern virginia base, where she was sexually assaulted, stabbed and left for dead
two other marines found her that night bloodied and dazed and brought her to a base clinic for treatment
buying by the soviets, china and morocco propelled export sales of u.s. wheat to more than twice the four-week average last week, the agriculture department said friday
soybean and sorghum sales also climbed, but corn, barley and cotton fell compared to the four-week average, the department said
wheat sales climbed sharply to 1,178,100 metric tons, primarily because of purchases of 308,500 tons by the soviets, 299,000 by china and 220,800 by morocco, the department said
it said sales of sorghum totaled 347,100 tons, the most in the current marketing year. the increase was attributed primarily to purchases by japan, venezuela and israel
sales of 589,500 tons of soybeans were 56 percent over the previous week's mark and 72 percent above the four-week average. japan was the main purchaser followed by romania, the netherlands and mexico
corn sales fell to 777,400 tons, 14 percent below the previous week and 44 percent lower than the four-week average, despite substantial purchases by japan and south korea. barley sales were down. tunisia purchased all of the 25,000 tons sold last week
the report said cotton sales totaled 55,700 bales, 13 percent below the previous week's mark and 50 percent off from the four week average
rice sales of 23,900 tons were 56 percent above the previous week but 46 percent below the four-week average. trinidad, canada and saudi arabia were the main purchasers
among other commodities, soybean cake and meal sales were up for the week but still well short of the four-week average while soybean oil sales were down. sales of hides and skins were lower for the week but a shade above the four-week average
the head of the president's aids commission said friday he would push for more money to help the food and drug administration review growing numbers of experimental aids drugs
research into aids drugs has been expanding quickly, and fda is reaching the point where ``they will not be able to handle the load and do the kind of regulatory work that's needed'' to make appropriate drugs available to people with aids, retired adm. james d. watkins said
a few tens of millions of dollars would help the fda handle the load, said watkins, chairman of the presidential commission on the human immunodeficiency virus epidemic
the fda approves drugs for marketing and also can allow expanded use of drugs still being tested
adequate money for the fda is very important to conquer acquired immune deficiency syndrome, watkins said in an interview during commission hearings
without such help, the agency might have to divert resources from evaluating other drugs for diseases that affect millions of people, he said
during the hearings, watkins asked fda commissioner frank young to work with the commission in detailing its needs in such areas as personnel and scientific facilities
he told young he wanted the commission to be ``your advocate'' in its report to the president
the needs are growing faster than we were able to calculate,'' young said at the hearing. ``i never thought we'd see this many drugs under development.''
approvals for experiments to try potential aids drugs in humans have soared in recent years, young said. as of jan. 31, he said, the fda approved 45 such applications for drugs to boost the immune system, 35 for chemicals to fight the aids virus, 31 for chemicals to treat infections that accompany aids and four for drugs to fight aids-related cancer
the fda looks at results of such experiments when it decides whether to approve a drug for marketing
while funding for aids research at the national institutes of health has jumped from $135 million in 1986 to $468 million in 1988, the fda's regulatory budget to handle the potential new drugs has gone from $10 million to only $25 million, young said. and private companies do more aids research and request more human experiments than nih does, he said
fifty-five pharmaceutical companies are developing or have developed 77 products aimed at diagnosing, preventing or treating aids, testified gerald mossinghoff, president of the pharmaceutical manufacturers association
i don't want fda to be the bottleneck'' in getting effective drugs to people with aids, young said
earlier testimony friday about use of unapproved aids drugs by some people shows ``a frustration on their part'' about lack of access to approved drugs, watkins said
one witness, michael callen, a founding member of the people with aids coalition in new york, said the six-month-old pwa health group in new york has sold more than 11 tons of one alternative treatment, egg lipids
the lipids appear to repair damage to cell walls, he said. the treatment seems to help in aids cases, although no formal experiments have been done, and it has no side effects, he said
new jersey prosecutors announced friday they won't seek a third murder trial against rubin ``hurricane'' carter, ending the former boxer's 22-year campaign for freedom that became a popular celebrity cause
the passage of time, problems finding witnesses, court decisions discrediting previous testimony and the burden posed by a third prosecution were cited in legal motions seeking dismissal of the indictment against carter and his alleged accomplice, john artis
acting passaic county prosecutor john goceljak, in papers filed in paterson, also said other reasons supporting dismissal were the intense scrutiny given the case
it has received the attention of more courts and proceedings than probably any other case in the history of this state and possibly any other state,'' the court papers said
in addition, goceljak noted that carter served 19 years of a life prison term before a federal judge ordered his release and artis has been paroled on the murder conviction. artis is serving a six-year term on an unrelated drug conviction
a federal judge's finding that their latest conviction was racially tainted would likely exclude testimony about the motive for the killings, goceljak said
three whites were shot by black men on june 17, 1966, hours after a black man was slain by a white assailant. carter and artis are black
carter's cause was taken up in the 1970s by celebrities such as bob dylan, who wrote and sang ``the ballad of hurricane,'' actress ellen burstyn, boxer muhammed ali and singer joan baez
they lionized the former middleweight contender and elevated him as a symbol of racial injustice. but after a few highly publicized fund-raising events, some touched by scandal, carter's all-star backing faded
goceljak's decision to seek dismissal was made in consultation with the state's criminal justice director, donald r. belsole
it's time to say enough is enough,'' belsole said. ``i think society is served, the system is served and the defendants are served.''
a judge must sign the prosecutor's motion to finalize dismissal of the indictment, and attorney myron beldock, in a statement on behalf of carter and artis, said he hoped for quick consideration by the court
we are extremely pleased with the decision of the state of new jersey to dismiss the case against our clients, and hope that the appropriate orders will be signed promptly,'' said beldock
carter, now 50, has been living in seclusion since being freed in november 1985 by u.s. district judge h. lee sarokin. his whereabouts could not be determined friday, and beldock declined to give out carter's home phone number
the u.s. supreme court on jan. 11 had let stand sarokin's finding that carter's conviction was tainted because prosecutors withheld information from the defense
sarokin said the convictions were based on ``an appeal to racism rather than reason, and concealment rather than disclosure.''
defense attorneys all along had considered a third trial unlikely because testimony from the only eyewitness, alfred bello, had been discredited during appeals
resultingly, admission of any relevant testimony by him at a new trial must be considered problematical at this point,'' goceljak said in court papers
the case began when two black gunmen entered the lafayette bar and grill in paterson and killed the bartender and two patrons. hours earlier, a black paterson bartender had been shot to death by a white man
carter and artis were arrested three months later and convicted by an all-white jury in may 1967
but bello and another witness later recanted, saying they had been pressured by detectives into giving false testimony at the trial, and the case was reopened in 1974. the new jersey supreme court reversed the convictions march 17, 1976
in a second trial, carter and artis were convicted again dec. 21, 1976, in part with the testimony of bello, who had retracted his claims that he was coerced. this time, the state's highest court upheld the convictions by a 4-3 vote in 1982
from there, the case went to federal court and sarokin's ruling. tampering</head> not attorneys but other agents for the tobacco company. subs 11th pvs, bgng, `at issue... with 4 grafs to update with attorney saying he filed motion to force company to identify all paid agents. picks up 12th graf, `carlton said ....'</note>
an attorney for american brands inc. has admitted that company representatives talked with jurors during the trial of a $16.5 million damage suit against the cigarette manufacturer, but he says the plaintiffs are wrong to call it jury tampering
the family of deceased smoker nathan horton, of durant, had claimed american brands should be held liable for his illness and death. horton, 50, died jan. 29, 1987, of emphysema and lung cancer after 35 years of smoking two packs a day of pall mall unfiltered cigarettes, which are made by american brands
the trial ended jan. 29 with a hung jury
there's no question that it's a serious matter to file a motion of this kind,'' said plaintiff's attorney don barrett. he filed documents thursday alleging improper jury contact by the american brands representatives and seeking a default judgment and other sanctions against the defendant
but ed blackmon, one of several local attorneys hired by american brands, called the allegations of improper jury contact a joke
what you have is a clear attempt by the plaintiff to keep us from getting a fair trial,'' blackmon said
blackmon said the alleged improper contact with jurors was to let jurors know there wouldn't be court that particular day because the judge was ill
when you try to make that into a tampering argument, it's what their case was about: take what amounts to nothing and turn it into something,'' he said
the horton family's motion, filed thursday in holmes county circuit court, is based on information contained in affidavits given to district attorney frank carlton
it seeks a judgment in the hortons' behalf on the basis of american brand's alleged liability for horton's lung cancer and death, as well as attorneys' fees, court costs and expenses in preparation of the case
at issue are allegations that two paid representatives of american brand contacted three jurors during the trial, said carlton
barrett said friday four affidavits filed with the court indicate ``that more than one paid agent of the american tobacco co. illegally and improperly contacted certain members of the jury'' during the trial
this agent was not an attorney, but he was mighty well paid,'' said barrett, declining to name the person
barrett said he had also filed a motion asking the court to force the tobacco company to provide names ``of each person known or suspected by either defendant to have been hired or paid by anybody as a `jury consultant' or otherwise to assist either defendants or their attorneys in trial preparation or at the trial ... and to state the sums of money paid or owing to each person so hired, including all persons paid simply to be present in the courtroom during the trial.''
carlton said he picked up four affidavits tuesday from holmes county circuit judge gray evans, who presided over the monthlong trial
jurors gave two of the sworn statements, in which they said an individual contacted them one day during the trial about a scheduling change in court, carlton said. two other affidavits were made by people who heard an american brands adviser bragging that he had been paid $2,700. one of those people also said the adviser was talking to a juror
you're not supposed to contact jurors,'' carlton said. ``you're not even supposed to say, `good morning.''' anti-intellectualism'</head>
attorney general edwin meese iii says that rejected supreme court nominee robert bork was the target of ``a perverse campaign of anti-intellectualism and politically motivated character assassination.''
meese, in a speech to the republican national lawyers association, also was critical of sen. joseph biden, d-del., saying that the senate confirmation process for bork resulted in ``grave injustices'' being done ``to one of the foremost judicial thinkers of our time.''
the senate judiciary committee that biden chairs conducted the confirmation hearings on bork and recommended rejection of the nomination. the senate on oct. 23 turned aside the nomination on a vote of 58-42
meese, in the speech delivered thursday night, said that bork was unfairly criticized during his confirmation hearings because he declined to take an expansive view of the role of the judiciary and of the ninth amendment dealing with rights not enumerated in the constitution
the attorney general said biden suggested that ``the courts exist to discover and define our inalienable rights and to enforce them and implied that this was so whether or not they are found in the written texts of the supreme laws of our land
such ideas not only represent a gross misunderstanding of the american political process and tradition but also ... if carried into effect would seriously threaten our liberties as a self-governing people,'' meese said
biden is hospitalized while recovering from surgery to correct a blood vessel problem near his brain and is unable to comment, said his press secretary, pat baskette
meese said the courts have a role in protecting rights, but that the rights themselves, to be valid, must be derived from written legal documents
most of us here agree that grave injustices were done to one of the foremost judicial thinkers of our time'' during bork's confirmation process, meese said. ``he was the victim of a perverse campaigan of anti-intellectualism and politically motivated character assassination, that i hope will never bear a repeat performance in the future history of our country.''
another unsuccessful supreme court nominee, douglas ginsburg, was in the audience for meese's speech and the two men spoke briefly after the attorney general's remarks. ginsburg's nomination, which followed bork's, collapsed nov. 7 after ginsburg acknowledged that he had smoked marijuana while he was a law professor
reagan's third nominee for the post, anthony kennedy, won swift senate approval and was sworn in as a justice on thursday
illinois sen. paul simon said friday he would remain in the democratic presidential race until the party convention in july
this is a marathon race for the heart and soul of the democratic party, and i'm in it until the finish line in atlanta,'' simon told the minnehaha county democratic forum. the national convention will be held july 18-21 in the georgia capital
the response i have received here in the past few days, plus the outpouring of encouragement from my home state of illinois and from democrats throughout the land, has convinced me that a great many americans want a clear-cut choice next november,'' simon said
they want a make-no-apologies democratic nominee. i intend to offer that choice, waging a fight for the heart and the soul of the democratic party.''
after placing third among democrats in this week's new hampshire primary, simon had said he would drop out of the race if he did not win south dakota's primary or minnesota's caucuses tuesday
the senator said friday that he initially decided on that path because of financial reality. ``i didn't want to end up with a huge debt,'' he said, adding that he did not make the statement as a ploy to get more money for his campaign
simon said cash pledges have increased dramatically in the last few days, but he would not say who had contributed. simon's staff has said the campaign received at least $300,000 in the past week and $250,000 the week earlier
gene r. carter, superintendent of the norfolk, va., public schools, was named the first national superintendent of the year on friday by the american association of school adminstrators
the award, announced at the educators' convention in las vegas, includes a gold medallion and a $1,000 u.s. savings bond for carter and a $10,000 college scholarship that will go to carter's hometown high school
carter attended booker t. washington high school in staunton, va., which in those days of legal segregation was for blacks only. it no longer exists
the scholarship will go instead to a student from robert e. lee high school, which now serves all the youths of staunton. the rules for deciding who will win the scholarship have not been determined
a panel of business, government and education leaders chose carter from four finalists, who had been selected earlier from a field of 38 state finalists
the runners-up were: jack c. dulaney of the monongalia schools in morgantown, w.va.; scott n. rose of the pinellas county schools in clearwater, fla., and robert d. tschirki of the littleton, colo., schools. each received a silver medallion and $500 u.s. savings bond
carter outlined his educational philosophy in this statement: ``education is power. the belief that knowledge empowers people and nations is the foundation upon which we must build our commitment to education. those of us who lead american public education must safeguard what could be termed an educational bill of rights for each student. we need to guarantee simultaneous equity and excellence for every young person in our nation.''
carter said teachers and students need administrators ``who help them learn. they also need leaders who create a positive and constructive tone, a climate that will support educational excellence.''
the award, sponsored by the servicemaster co. of downers grove, ill., is patterned after the long-established national teacher of the year competition
the editors of the opposition daily extra said friday that the government closed down their publication again, three weeks after it reopened
cristobal sarmiento, extra's publisher, said in an interview that government officials arrived thursday night and sealed the door with an adhesive tape that read ``closed by the attorney general of the nation.''
the paper had reopened in january, six months after it was closed in a general crackdown by the government on opposition news media after protests started against the leadership of gen. manuel antonio noriega
noriega, the nation's military chief, is considered the de facto ruler of panama, nominally governed by civilian president eric arturo delvalle
a document ordering extra to be closed said this was done ``to obtain elements that might serve to prove a punishable deed or to uncover its authors and participants.''
editors said government officials confiscated material ready for publication in friday's editions before sealing the door
extra is printed in the opposition daily la prensa next door, but is a separate publication. la prensa reopened last month and continues to publish
besides extra, the newspaper el siglo and the radio stations kw continente, la exitosa and radio chiriqui have been closed down by the government this year
sarmiento was accused last year of publishing information against the interests of the national economy, but the case was suspended as part of an amnesty ordered by the national legislature
six news media that had been closed last july reopened as part of that amnesty
the national banking commission meanwhile announced friday that nearly 50 percent of the local deposits withdrawn from banks in panama were returned in the past four months
people had withdrawn banking deposits since unrest started last june with allegations that noriega had been involved in a wide range of illicit activities
the banking commission said about $103 million of the $208 million withdrawn up to last october had been recovered by private panamanian banks and that as a result they had ``strengthened their liquidity.''
the commission's statement said about 40 percent of the recovery was registered during the past five weeks
by continuing in this way, or better yet, accelerating this rhythm of recovery, the private panamanian banks surely will be able to reactivate soon their credit lending as much for commercial purposes as for mortgage holders,'' the statement said
there are 20 panamanian and 98 foreign institutions in panama
the marine radio in qatar issued warnings friday to vessels in the persian gulf after a ship reported what appeared to be a mine in the shallows off the sheikdom's west coast
the radio advised ships to stay clear of that area between qatar, which juts north into the gulf from the arabian peninsula, and the island state of bahrain
shipping executives said a ship that did not identify itself reported sighting an object that was ``black, with points,'' at about 4 p.m. there was no confirmation that it was one of the numerous mines sown in the gulf since the iran-iraq war began in september 1980
waters in that stretch are too shallow for major shipping and unlikely to have been mined, but a few mines have been found off bahrain and qatar, apparently after drifting down from the northern gulf
most sightings have turned out to be floating debris ranging from oil drums to dead sheep with their feet sticking out of the water
a french corvette, the montcalm, used gunfire to destroy a floating mine north of bahrain on thursday, according a report by the kuwaiti news agency that quoted french navy officials in paris
the united states and five european countries are decreasing their mine-sweeping forces in the gulf after declaring the threat posed by iranian mines to be under control
iran said its navy intercepted five foreign ships thursday in the strait of hormuz, the gulf's narrow southern gate, but let all of them go when it was found they contained no cargo bound for iraq
iranian frigates and armed speedboats patrol the strait, which leads into the gulf of oman. they stop ships suspected of trading with iraq and sometimes attack neutral vessels in retaliation for iraqi air strikes on iranian coastal shipping
a crowd of 75 people waved signs and released blue balloons friday in support of dallas police, after officers killed two men who threatened them with weapons in separate incidents
minority leaders and the city council have berated the department for the past two years for being too trigger-happy when confronting suspects, especially blacks and hispanics, but others have rallied around police
there have been police casualties, too, including two officers slain last month
police credited new two-person patrols, begun after the second officer's death, with averting officers' death or serious injury in the latest incidents
early friday, police shot and killed a white man who used a hunting knife to cut an officer who had chased the man's car during a robbery investigation
wednesday night, police fatally shot a black man they said pointed a loaded semiautomatic pistol at an officer who had slipped and fallen on a dark residential street and was unable to draw his gun
the department placed the officers on routine administrative leave while it conducts an internal investigation
tension flared last month when police chief billy prince accused council members of fostering anti-police sentiment that led to the jan. 23 death of officer john chase, who was gunned down by a deranged, homeless man. some witnesses said a few youths egged on the gunman, though others said they heard nothing of the kind
since then, however, the city has seen repeated shows of support for the department
at friday's noon rally at the john f. kennedy memorial, the mostly white crowd held signs and released balloons in support of the double-patrol system police say may have saved the life of one officer wednesday and prevented further injury to the other officer friday
we are here today to thank each and every peace officer across this nation for doing the job that no one else is brave enough to do,'' said terri kleinmeier, president of citizens offering police support
e.l. crenshaw, a retired dallas police officer, called the double patrols ``the best thing since flush toilets'' and attacked police critics by saying ``you don't put down these indians until you've walked in their moccasins.''
the two-man element at the scene prevented more injury to the officer. it's very possible that the injury would have escalated to a severe and critical injury,'' homicide investigator don ortega said
dorothy johnson, one of the few blacks to attend the downtown rally, said there has been racial tension in the city, ``but i don't take sides. a tragedy can happen to either side.''
ronnie lewis jones died about an hour after he was shot wednesday by officer brian wolff, who said jones pointed the pistol at his partner, steven johnson
if it had not been a two-man element, johnson could be dead right now,'' said capt. john holt, head of the department's crimes against persons section
early friday, police killed thomas holloway, 35, after stopping him on the southern methodist university campus. the car's license tags were covered with cloth
holloway emerged from his car, carrying a hunting knife, and cut one officer's hand, police said. the officer and his partner fired at the man, ortega said. at least five shots were fired, police said
police were paired as a safety precaution after two officers _ chase, who was white, and james joe, who was black _ were killed in nine days last month
on jan. 14 joe, who was off-duty, was killed as he confronted burglary suspects in a northeast dallas apartment complex's parking lot. nine days later, a mentally ill man took chase's gun and shot him to death before being killed by pursuing officers
arizona's national image is suffering, former rep. john rhodes said friday in announcing he will run against impeached gov. evan mecham, a fellow republican, in the may 17 recall election
if there is an election on may 17, my name will be on the ballot,'' the 71-year-old former u.s. house minority leader said at a news conference. ``i don't like to lose. in fact, i'm not going to lose.''
rhodes will oppose mecham, democrat carolyn warner and a number of lesser-known potential candidates in the winner-take-all recall vote. mrs. warner, a former state school superintendent, lost to mecham in the three-way 1986 gubernatorial race
mecham also faces a march 9 criminal trial on charges of concealing a $350,000 campaign loan and a feb. 29 impeachment trial in the state senate
mecham and his staffers did not return phone calls seeking comment on rhodes' entry into the race
rhodes, who served 30 years in the house before retiring in 1982, said that ``because of the current acrimonious climate, the important issues facing the state are not being addressed adequately. ... we cannot afford continued paralysis.''
mecham is guaranteed a spot on the recall ballot. other candidates must submit 3,336 signatures of registered voters by march 18. the secretary of state's office said 86 people, including mrs. warner and rhodes, had picked up packets to collect signatures thus far
attorney general bob corbin has issued a non-binding opinion saying that if mecham resigns or is removed from office before the recall vote, the election still must be held even though the governorship would have been turned over to acting gov. rose mofford
however, a number of lawmakers and others have said the matter is likely to be settled in court
mrs. mofford, a democrat, has declined to say if she will run in a recall election
rhodes declined to criticize mecham or mrs. warner, who has labeled him a candidate of the power brokers because he is backed by people like developer j. fife symington and keith turley, chairman of pinnacle west, the parent firm of arizona public service corp. symington is rhodes' finance chairman, and turley was among the first people to urge rhodes to enter the race
my service in the congress should be adequate proof that i don't wear anyone's collar,'' rhodes said
rhodes said former sen. barry goldwater has promised his support, and current sen. john mccain, a republican, said friday he also backs rhodes. goldwater previously said mecham should resign
state republican chairman burton kruglick said the party has not endorsed either mecham or rhodes in the recall campaign
meanwhile, mrs. mofford on friday disputed mecham's claim that she has been dismantling his administration since she took over as acting governor following his feb. 5 impeachment by the house
i am responsible for acting as the chief executive of this state during that period,'' mrs. mofford said in a letter to mecham. she said she had replaced only one department head and had given mecham everyone he wanted for his personal staff
also on friday, a recall petition was taken out against rep. sterling ridge, a republican who voted to impeach mecham, making him the 10th lawmaker to face a recall drive because of his recall vote
the first of seven memorial services for victims of the rampage at a silicon valley defense plant took place friday while officials maintained a suicide watch on the gunman charged with their deaths
about 600 mourners jammed a funeral home for services for glenda moritz, a 27-year-old planner at esl inc., the top-secret electronics plant where police say richard wade farley shot seven workers to death and wounded three others, including a woman whose rejection of farley's advances apparently sparked the massacre
jeanne pilling, moritz's roommate and best friend, said the two spent the night before tuesday's shooting talking about their destinies
glenda said, `we never know what the future holds for us. don't you wish you knew what the future holds?''' pilling recalled. ``i still don't believe it really happened. she was my very best friend. i've never been that close to a person in my life.''
there was no casket; a private burial is planned. mourners paid their respects before a display of photos surrounded by dozens of bouquets
you've lost that loving feeling,'' by the righteous brothers, was played during the service. friends said it was one of moritz's favorite songs
additional services are planned this weekend for the six others killed before the computer expert surrendered after 5{ hours
medical authorities said three esl employees wounded in the attack, and a fourth who broke her arm trying to escape, are all recovering, including laura black, a 26-year-old technician whom farley had pursued relentlessly for four years
farley, 39, was fired from the company 21 months ago for harassing her, esl officials said
he is being held without bail in solitary confinement in santa clara county jail, where he has requested a telephone and envelopes
he was being held in an isolation cell under a ``welfare watch,'' which allows guards to maintain close supervision in case he attempts to take his life and also protects him from attacks by other inmates, said san jose county sheriff's sgt. cary colla
he has been quiet. he's been polite to staff. as one officer described it, he seemed to be going through a lot of self-thought,'' said colla
the docile and quiet portrait of farley contrasts markedly with the man police say tormented black by following her, phoning her, joining her aerobics class and sending her more than 300 letters
i want to warn you how far i'm willing to go if you continue to push me,'' he wrote in one note. ``i once told you i will do whatever is necessary to see you. let's say you don't back down and pretty soon i crack under the pressure and run amok destroying everything in my path until the police catch me and kill me. ...''
black finally obtained a court order to prevent farley from bothering her further. the order was final on wednesday, 12 hours after farley marched into the esl plant carrying 98 pounds of weaponry and opened fire with a repeating shotgun
rep. newt gingrich, r-ga., said friday he will ask the house ethics committee next month to launch a formal investigation into allegations of corruption that have been leveled against speaker jim wright in published reports over the past 10 years
gingrich, a leader of republican right in the house and a frequent critic of the ethics of house democratic leaders, said the news accounts outline ``clear violations of house rules'' by wright, d-texas, and deserve to be investigated
the problem that this house faces is that they now have a speaker who has real problems,'' he said. ``we're going to have to at least, at a minimum, insist that we find out what the truth is, and on march 3 i intend to create that opportunity.''
neither wright nor his spokesman were immediately available to comment on gingrich's plan to request an investigation
under house rules, any member can ask the ethics committee _ formally called the committee on standards of official conduct _ to investigate another member. the panel, composed of six democrats and six republicans, can reject such a request only by a majority vote
gingrich said it would be ``inconceivable'' that the committee would refuse to investigate the allegations. but if that happens, he said he intends to force the issue on the house floor with a series of privileged votes that could tie up the house for months
gingrich, who lost a house vote last year on his proposal to create an outside commission to investigate ethics complaints against wright and other democratic leaders, said he was announcing his intentions to seek an ethics committee investigation now so other house members could familiarize themselves with the allegations against wright
he said he chose march 3 as the date to file his complaint because he wants the committee to have time to complete at least a preliminary investigation before congress adjourns for the year
gingrich cited two specific published reports which he said provide clear evidence that wright violated house rules. the first involved wrights's failure since 1980 to file the required financial disclosure reports for a company in which he is a partner
the second involved 55 percent royalties wright received for a book published by a friend whose printing company worked for wright's campaign committee. gingrich said house rules prohibit members from receiving royalities in excess of ``the usual and customary value for such services,'' and most authors receive royalties of 6 percent to 8 percent
gingrich and a political action committee he heads were accused last month by the democratic congressional campaign committee of mail fraud for soliciting more than $200,000 in contributions for conservative candidates through the mails and then providing only $3,000 to such candidates
gingrich denied the dccc accusations friday, characterizing them as an attempt to discredit him politically so he could not pursue the ethics complaints against wright. he also denied that his actions against wright were politically motivated. over new hampshire loss; picks up 2nd graf pvs, bgng, `at the.' minor editing thruout.</note>
vice president george bush said friday that the rodeo of the political campaign is filled with hard knocks, and suggested that his chief rival bob dole is still smarting from his new hampshire fall
in a thinly disguised barb directed toward the kansas senator, bush suggested to a crowd at the national cowboy hall of fame that his opponent is brooding over his second-place finish in the new hampshire republican primary
you learn that the rodeo is full of hard encounters with the ground and you learn to pick yourself up and dust yourself off and get back on the horse again,'' bush said
and there's a lesson in that for everybody in public life and it's a lesson that the people of iowa reminded me of 10 days ago,'' bush said. ``so you don't get angry and bitter when you get defeated. you pick yourself back up and get back on the horse and go on and win the next election.''
bush said earlier in the day that he is bewildered by dole's refusal to debate him friday night, but said he will ``let them worry'' about the wisdom of that strategy
at the start of a campaign tour in oklahoma city, bush said that despite the pre-super tuesday jockeying by dole and pat robertson, ``all i know is to concentrate on the positive and take my message to the people.''
a senior bush campaign aide, talking to reporters on grounds of anonymity, said there had been talk of bush withdrawing from the dallas debate. but the official said bush killed that idea, telling aides that ``i gave my word'' to take part in the face-off
seeking votes in oklahoma, a state that has suffered from declining u.s. oil production and price drops, bush told reporters at will rogers world airport that if elected president, he would push for ``a newer and more visionary'' energy policy
bush did not elaborate on that point. he told an audience in dallas on thursday that the united states must free itself of dependency on foreign sources of oil. in the new hampshire campaign, he said he was against a $10 per barrel import fee
the vice president's plane landed in oklahoma city in clear, springlike weather under sunny skies. bush strode over to waiting reorters, and he was besieged with questions about dole's refusal to meet him in the dallas republican presidential debate later in the day
i honestly cannot interpret what it's about,'' bush said of the dole campaign strategy. ``i'm simply confused by what it is. ... i'll let them worry about their campaigns and we'll keep on the positive track.''
he emphatically denied allegations from rival campaign camps that his campaign had been given advance notice of the questions to be asked in the debate
i can't believe that somebody would make that kind of accusation,'' he said. ``it's certainly not true. there is no evidence of truth whatsoever in that.''
bush also said ``no way'' when asked whether he was worried about being upset by robertson in the march 5 south carolina primary
but the vice president did acknowledge that ``he's strong there. but we will fight hard.'' bush is scheduled to visit south carolina on monday after campaigning over the weekend in his hometown of houston
bush began his oklahoma city tour by visiting a control data systems computer components manufacturing plant
at one point, the vice president sat down next to a woman, wearing a blue work blouse, and accepted her invitation to try his hand at assembling a component. he manually installed a computer chip into a circuit board
after touring the plant, bush went to the cowboy hall of fame, where he joined in a tribute to the late malcolm baldrige, the reagan administration commerce secretary who was killed in a fall from horse in northern california last year
baldrige, an accomplished rodeo rider, was enshrined in the hall during a private ``hat hanging'' ceremony
colombia's largest leftist guerrilla group said friday it supports president virgilio barco's attempt to combat violence by reforming the constitution so he will have more power
the colombian revolutionary armed forces, known as the farc, said it believes ``a vast majority of the people'' support such a plebiscite
the communique, from the farc's chiefs of staff, was published by colombia's leading daily, el tiempo, of bogota
the supreme court has thwarted barco's attempts to use state of siege powers to move against drug traffickers, leftist guerrillas and right-wing death squads. it found about half of his decrees unconstitutional
barco proposed last month that colombia's 1886 constitution be reformed through a referendum
a 1957 amendment to the constitution prohibits referendums, so there must first be a plebiscite to lift that ban. once the ban was lifted, a constituent assembly would be held to decide how the constitution should be reformed
barco has not spelled out the reforms he wants, but indicated he wants to change colombia's two-chamber congress to one chamber to speed up legislation; to change the overburdened and corrupt court system, and to get more power in issuing decrees under a state of siege
a state of siege is on now in colombia. there has been a state of siege for all but a few months of the last 40 years
barco belongs to the liberal party. the opposition conservative party refused to support a plebiscite. barco has delayed setting a voting date in hope of promoting national unity on the issue
the plebiscite could be as early as march 13, coinciding with the nationwide election of mayors
the farc said barco should ignore the conservatives and see ``if the people want a new constitution or if they want to stay with the anachronistic and feudal one of 1886.''
the farc is the largest of five guerrilla groups in colombia. the army says the farc has about 5,000 members. farc leaders claim to have about 20,000 combatants
by reforming the constitution, barco hopes to have the tools to stop violence which has been wracking the country for four decades
the left has been particularly hurt. more than 400 members of its patriotic union party were killed in the last two years. many of the party's leaders and other members are former farc guerrillas
the party says right-wing death squads run by the military are behind the killings
about 100 members of the liberal and conservative parties also have been killed in the last two years. in many of those cases the military has blamed leftist guerrillas
colombia also has been hit hard by drug trafficker violence
the government says that the traffickers killed a justice minister, an attorney general, several judges, two newspaper editors and many others who opposed them over the last four years
thousands of ford motor co. workers learned friday their share of the automaker's record $4.6 billion in 1987 earnings will average more than $3,700 each when profit-sharing checks are handed out next month
ford will distribute $635 million in profit-sharing to hourly and salaried workers march 8. the no. 2 automaker said it is believed to be the largest one-year payout ever by a major u.s. corporation
ford's chief financial officer, stan seneker, announced the figures to cheering workers at ford's michigan truck plant in wayne, just west of detroit. the announcement was broadcast live to 200 ford facilities nationwide
ford, which earned the highest profits in automotive history in 1987, will know in coming weeks exactly how many of its 180,000 workers will receive a share, said ford spokesman mike moran said
the company's u.s. employees can take pride in their performance as members of the ford team. it is fitting that they will share in the results by receiving their largest profit-sharing checks ever,'' ford chairman donald petersen said
united auto workers vice president stephen yokich, who heads the union's ford department, said the uaw was pleased with the payouts, which were first negotiated in 1982 for 1983 earnings
but he added, ``we would again urge ford motor co. to allocate much more in capital investments from its huge profits into u.s.-based production of vehicles and components
the real `reward' sought by u.s. workers, consumers and communities for their contributions to ford's success should be sizeable additional u.s. investments by ford toward securing jobs for the future,'' yokich said
ford has added no assembly plants of its own in the united states in recent years. instead, it is building some cars in mexico, and its new ford probe sporty coupe is built at a mazda motor corp. plant
ford also imports cars from korea and west germany and plans to build a new lincoln-mercury luxury convertible in australia
in 1987, ford outearned industry-leader general motors corp. for the second straight year, its profits jumping 41 percent over 1986
workers at gm, which earned $3.6 billion, will receive no share of profits for the second straight year. no. 3 chrysler corp. made $1.3 billion in 1987
although the formulas for profit-sharing at ford and gm differ, both are based on the company's u.s. performance. ford improved its u.s. earnings in 1987; gm's fell by nearly half from 1986
the lack of profit-sharing at gm at the same time that the corporation handed out millions of dollars in executive bonuses angered workers. gm has switched to the ford formula for the contract covering 1988-90
but gm said that even under the ford formula, it wouldn't have earned enough in the united states to pay profit-sharing for 1987
more than 160,250 ford workers received record profit-sharing payments averaging $2,100 for 1986, when ford earned $3.29 billion
in 1985, ford profit-sharing averaged $1,200 per worker, $2,000 in 1984 and $400 in 1983. in the past five years, ford said it has given out more than $1.6 billion to its workers
the united nations plans to reconvene the 159-member general assembly in an emergency session to consider the u.s. move to close the palestine liberation organization mission, u.n. officials said friday
the effort by the u.s. congress has placed america on a collision course with the world body. the plo has formidable support at the united nations, which generally votes against the united states and israel on middle east issues
under the u.s. anti-terrorism act of 1987, passed by congress and signed by president reagan on dec. 22, 1987, the plo mission at the united nations was ordered closed by march 22
on thursday, arab nations demanded a resumed session to fight the u.s. action which the united nations and the u.s. state department say violates a legal agreement on the right of missions to operate
in a letter to peter florin of east germany, president of the general assembly, the arab group requested reconvening of the general assembly as soon as possible and no later than feb. 29
the 42nd general assembly completed its agenda in december but technically is still in session. it can be reconvened at any time with a request by members and consent of the president
reconvened sessions are not uncommon, but the plo issue is one of the most controversial and divisive to be considered
secretary-general javier perez de cuellar ``feels the request for a resumed session is both timely and understandable,'' u.n. press spokesman mario zamorano told reporters at a briefing friday
florin will return wednesday from a visit to egypt and will consult with the arab countries on reconvening the world body, his spokeswoman, nadia youssef, told reporters friday
the plo and the arab league previously said they might ask the assembly to leave new york and meet in geneva if the plo mission is closed
after congress passed the anti-terrorism measure, the general assembly overwhelmingly passed a resolution urging the united states to leave the plo mission open
the u.s. government itself is divided on the issue. the state department has said repeatedly that the treaty obliges the united states to allow all u.n. missions, including the plo, to function
it now is up to attorney general edwin meese iii to decide whether the mission can remain open
several members of congress have said meese told them he would close the mission, despite the treaty
the treaty provides for binding arbitration of disputes between the united states and the united nations. perez de cuellar said the united states has so far not agreed to arbitration
plo chairman yasser arafat has said the plo may take the dispute to the international court of justice in the hague. those...''</note>
windhoek, south-west africa (ap) _ a bomb exploded in a crowded bank near a military base during lunch hour friday and killed 14 people. it was the deadliest civilian attack in the territory's 22-year guerrilla war for independence
the blast in the northern town of oshakati killed 10 women, three men and a child and injured 31 people, most of them seriously, said an army spokesman, commandant lieb bester
no one immediately claimed responsibility for the bombing, which destroyed the first national bank building. five people were injured when the same bank was bombed a year ago
all those killed, a white woman and 13 blacks, were civilians, bester said. most were believed to be government workers who had just received their paychecks
a police inspector, keirie du rand, said about 55 pounds of plastic explosives were used in the blast, which occurred shortly before 1 p.m. anfire raged for several hours after the explosion, hampering police access
oshakati is about 25 miles south of the angolan border and is home to the largest military base in the region, a staging point for south africa's military intervention in angola's civil war
guerrillas of the south-west african people's organization (swapo), based in angola, frequently operate in the ovambo region around oshakati
swapo has been fighting since 1966 to gain control of south-west africa, also known as namibia. the territory is administered by south africa in violation of a united nations resolution
a statement received in windhoek, the territorial capital, from a swapo office in luanda, angola, denied involvement. the statement said the blast was part of a south african propaganda campaign to ``smear the name of swapo.''
swapo has claimed responsibility for previous bombings in the territory, including a blast last month at a store at a military base in windhoek. the bombing, which caused no injuries, was intended to protest the visit to namibia of conservative west german politician franz josef strauss
the worst previous bombing in the region occurred in 1986 in the port town of walvis bay, a south african enclave near the center of namibia's atlantic coast. five people were killed and 23 injured in that explosion at a crowded butcher shop. no group claimed responsibility for that blast
swapo has attacked both military and civilian targets during its sabotage and bombing campaign. an estimated 20,000 people have died during the bush war, about half of them guerrillas, about 700 of them security forces, and the rest civilians
south african and south-west african troops have been fighting for about five months in angola on behalf of the unita rebel movement. south african officials say they will not grant independence to namibia until after withdrawal of the 40,000 cuban troops fighting in support of angola's marxist government
only about 70,000 of namibia's 1.3 million people are white, and the south african government has installed a multiracial transitional administration to run the territory's affairs
swapo has refused to negotiate with the transitional government, citing the u.n. resolution demanding free elections
the south african press association said the doors of the bank may have been locked at the time of the explosion. it said guards often locked the doors when the bank was busy in order to keep the office from becoming too crowded
a federal appeals court friday rejected an attempt by america west airlines inc. to block the planned merger of usair and piedmont aviation, saying the phoenix-based airline had no legal standing in the case
in a brief opinion, a three-judge panel of the u.s. circuit court of appeals here refused to grant america west's petition to review the transportation department's approval of the merger
america west contended that the merger will inhibit its ability to expand to eastern cities
but the court said ``america west's generalized allegations about flying eastward are neither causally related to the department's final order nor redressable by reversal of the order.''
even if the merger were overturned by the court, america west would be no better off because it has not identified any interest in serving any identified market actually affected by the merger,'' the court said
in a statement, america west's chairman, edward r. beauvais, said the company was disappointed by the decision
we are in the process of reviewing the decision to determine our future course of action with respect to the case,'' he said
air traffic will increase steadily over the next dozen years with air traffic controllers handling a third more planes in 1999 than they do today, the federal aviation administration forecast friday
the faa forecast also shows that the number of people flying commercial jetliners will grow from about 445 million passengers in 1987 to nearly 765 million in 1999
the commuter aircraft are expected to have an even sharper passenger growth from carrying 27 million people last year to carrying 58 million annually just before the turn of the century, according to the faa's latest aviation forecasts
what we see is a situation of growth, substantial growth, for the industry and the faa,'' john rodgers, the agency's deputy director for aviation policy and plans, told an aviation planning conference
the conference focused on problems stemming from the expected growth in aviation in the coming years. most aviation experts have predicted that either through government regulation or some form of market incentives the nation's aviation system will have to be constrained because of a shortage of airports and air traffic control limitiations
in a speech, however, robert crandall, chairman of american airlines, told the group that more attention should be placed on ``how to avoid (air traffic) constraints rather than using up too many resources talking about how to operate within constraints.''
crandall acknowledged that some limitations on aviation growth might be necessary in the short term, but he said in the long run ``bold action'' is needed to increase airway and airport capacity
we should not become so focused on constraints that we lose sight of the need to build an aviation system capable of operating in the long term ... without the constraints which are increasingly reducing the industry's efficiency, stifling its growth and frustrating its customers,'' said crandall
the faa growth forecast was based on an assumption of an average 3 percent annual economic growth and the absence of intense fare wars among the airlines. the growth likely would be dampened by slower economic growth and likely be greater if the airlines were to engage in a fare battle that would attract more travelers
according to the faa forecast, the number of domestic enplanements will increase 4.6 percent a year through the end of this decade while the number of revenue passenger miles - a figure that reflects a single passenger traveling one mile - will increase 4.8 percent a year
the number of flights, however, are expected to increase at a slower rate, 2.3 percent annually, indicating that airlines will fly with fewer empty seats and likely move somewhat to larger aircraft, said the forecast
during the next dozen years there will be almost no increase in the number of general aviation aircraft, although the number of more sophisticated turbine-powered business aircraft is expected to increase by about 50 percent, the faa said
the demand for faa operational services is anticipated to increase over the forecast period as a result of continued strong growth in aviation activity,'' predicted the faa
the total number of aircraft operations - both commercial and private -handled at faa towers and at enroute air traffic control centers will increase by about 2.4 percent a year, the agency said
faa towers at airports will handle 81.4 million flight operations by 1999, compared to 61 million last year, the forecast predicted. the increase in operations handled by enroute air traffic control centers will stem primarily from increased air carrier and commuter traffic, the faa said
the head of israel's government broadcasting authority has banned a satirical song about alleged israeli indifference to the violence in the occupied arab territories, a spokeswoman said friday
what's burning'' is about members of a family who intently watch the american television show ``dynasty'' while their house goes up in flames
the song is a satirical commentary on the way normal life has continued for many israelis during 10 weeks of violence in the occupied west bank and gaza strip. more than 50 palestinians have been killed by israelis in the unrest, according to u.n. figures
it was to have been performed on the friday night entertainment show ``from me, manny,'' one of the highest-rated shows on state television
spokeswoman sari timerman said the song was banned by uri porat, chief of the israel broadcasting authority, who described it as ``maccabre anti-israeli propaganda in the guise of social satire. it is based on the lying thesis that the israeli public is indifferent ... to what happens here.''
several daily newspapers gave front-page coverage to the ban and published the words of the song in full
four well-known comedians, including tuvia zafir, whose specialty is mimicking israel's political leaders, act out the lyrics
zafir portrays the father in a family of four that includes a wife, a son serving in the army and a younger boy
the father, determined to watch ``dynasty,'' ignores the the warnings of his younger son about the flames outside
father: ``don't worry. it won't last. it will be over in a few minutes.''
verse: ``nothing's burning. nothing's burning. no reason to get up. no reason to hurry.''
father: ``and as the mature, responsible and experienced one my motto is: `sit still and don't do anything.'''
even when his clothes catch fire the father doesn't worry. zafir sings:
you're so silly, fire, so silly. what do you think, that just because you're burning me i will think you're endangering my health? really now! go ahead, spread as much as you like. we'll see which one of us tires faster.''
the house burns down
father: ``the fire, as i said, will finally be extinguished and of course time will be on our side.''
son: ``but father, we have burned the time.''
father: ``shut up!'' (slaps him.) ``and whoever takes a look around''
mother: ``will see that father, as always, is right.''
ms. timerman said porat was especially angered by a passage in which the father tells his elder son to get up and put out the flames, ``but try not to block `dynasty.'''
she quoted porat as saying: ``this is an insult to every israeli family. it portrays them as not caring about their soldier-sons and sending them to do their dirty work.''
premier giovanni goria won a vote of confidence in the senate on friday that completed the resurrection of his shaky coalition government
the senate voted 170 to 91 to back goria. the chamber of deputies, the lower house of parliament, voted 364-208 with four abstentions on thursday to support the return of the premier
although the votes of confidence have supported goria, the problems that led to his resignation have not been resolved
goria, a christian democrat, resigned feb. 10 after defectors in his party helped defeat the government 17 times in the chamber during secret votes on the proposed budget and spending for government ministries
president francesco cossiga rejected the resignation and told goria to remain premier to get the budget passed by parliament before the april 30 deadline
goria's five-party coalition, italy's 47th postwar government, has been shaky since he took office last july. the coalition includes the christian democrats, the socialists and three tiny parties, the social democrats, republicans and liberals
the premier, who at 44 is the youngest to ever hold the post, also resigned in november during a dispute with the liberals. however, cossiga later persuaded him to withdraw his resignation
jesse jackson on friday asked for the support of homosexuals during a presidential campaign appearance at an inner-city church led by a lesbian pastor
i stood with you,'' the democratic candidate said. ``now make me a president.''
the rev. arlene ackerman, pastor of all god's children metropolitan community church, said jackson was the only presidential candidate to join gays and lesbians when they marched on washington, d.c., in october
he's not afraid to dignify us by championing our causes,'' said bill dorn, a former catholic priest who is gay
jackson, who drew a capacity crowd of about 1,000 to the church, said other candidates have avoided making appearances with gay and lesbian groups
they were afraid that being close to you would make them look unpresidential,'' jackson said
jackson said he supports legislation in congress that calls for an end to discrimination based on sexual orientation. he also said he supports a massive, federally funded aids prevention and education campaign
i hope you do consider me to be your friend,'' jackson said. ``i affirm your humanity and your rights under the law.''
jackson urged the crowd to attend minnesota's precinct caucuses on tuesday
don't pull for me and vote for someone else,'' he said. ``put your oath and votes in the same trough.''
a0816,0899
peace talks between the leftist nicaraguan government and contra rebels broke down friday and their mediator indirectly blamed the sandinistas for not accepting a new cease-fire proposal
cardinal miguel obando y bravo, the head of the roman catholic church in nicaragua, abruptly suspended the talks in mid-afternoon, expressing disappointment that his proposal had not been accepted ``in principle'' by both sides
victor hugo tinoco, nicaragua's deputy foreign minister, said the cardinal called off the talks before he could deliver a formal, written response that would have accepted the mediator's five-point plan
the plan, offered by obando y bravo on thursday, called on the contras to accept a cease-fire in exchange for four major concessions by the sandinistas, including a total amnesty for all political prisoners and full freedom of the press
contra negotiators told a news conference thursday night that they accepted the cardinal's proposal ``in principle,'' while tinoco called it ``interesting and constructive'' but said it needed clarification
paul reichler, a washington, d.c., attorney adivising the sandinistas, said earlier friday that president daniel ortega had initially instructed his negotiators not to discuss obando y bravo's proposal at the bargaining table with the contras
reichler said ortega's instructions came by telephone thursday night, shortly after obando y bravo offered his plan to break what he called an impasse in a discussion on defining the objectives of a cease-fire
the attorney said ortega suggested that roger fisher, a harvard professor who heads the institute for conflict resolution in boston, draw up a new cease-fire plan, drawing on the proposals of the government and the contras
in a communique, obando y bravo rejected that suggestion
no new date was set for further negotiations, although both sides expressed their willingness to continue the talks
the cardinal's communique said that ``after all the meetings that they have had, the mediators believe that the acceptance, in principle, of its proposal would favor the rapid advance of the cease-fire negotiations.''
the communique also said the government and the contras should give their negotiators ``enough decision-making ability to resolve problems that present themselves in the negotiations.''
in a news conference after the talks ended, jaime morales, the chief contra negotiator, said his team had the ability to make decisions on the spot, noting that the rebels had accepted obando y bravo's proposal thursday night
we accepted the proposal in principle, and the other side did not,'' morales said
tinoco, on the other hand, blamed the contras for the breakdown in the negotiations
it was our impression that the contras were systematically rejecting all discussion of a cease-fire,'' he told reporters. ``the contras continue to be advised by people in the (reagan) administration who want to continue the war.''
the u.s.-supported rebels expressed reservations friday about the proposal. they said they saw potential danger in the mediator's request for their acceptance of an as yet undefined cease-fire in exchange for concessions
during a break in the talks friday morning, reichler told reporters that ortega felt the guatemala city talks should be confined solely to the mechanics of establishing a cease-fire and not become a forum for political discussions
the attorney quoted the nicaraguan president as saying he was willing to talk personally with obando y bravo about his proposal but did not want his negotiators to discuss it at the talks
later in the day, however, the government apparently switched positions. but by the time it could get its new response to the cardinal, he had already called off the negotiations
tinoco said the government's formal response accepted the cardinal's five-point proposal in principle but said it was ``indispensable to arrive at a definition and agreement'' on his cease-fire plan
under the cardinal's plan, the rebels would be confined to certain ``enclaves or zones'' during a 30-day cease-fire, while talks on a permanent truce continued
in exchange for the cease-fire, the government would:
_ grant a ``full, general amnesty'' to several thousand political prisoners in nicaraguan jails, including members of the national guard of former dictator gen. anastasio somoza, whom the sandinistas overthrew in 1979
_ permit unrestricted freedom of the press, a right now granted only to some media
_ ``reconsider'' a mandatory military draft law, which has provoked violent protests in several nicaraguan cities
_ reopen talks with the internal opposition, represented by 14 political parties and a coalition of business, labor and political groups known as the democratic coordinate. those talks broke off late last year
the first round of direct peace talks between the two sides took place in san jose, costa rica, in late january, a week before the u.s. house rejected president reagan's latest request for $36.2 million in contra aid
participants characterized that meeting as cordial but lacking in progress
the sandinistas and the contras came to guatemala city stating that they were still far apart on the question of which should come first, a cease-fire or democratic reforms in nicaragua
the negotiations are being held in accordance with a central american peace plan signed by five of the region's presidents last august
the reagan administration was accused in court papers friday of continuing to force employees to sign agreements not to disclose classified information despite a one-year moratorium imposed by congress
the american foreign service association filed a motion in u.s. district court for a preliminary injunction to force secretary of state george schultz to stop ordering state department employees to sign one of the non-disclosure forms
the injunction sought by the plaintiffs would also direct cia director william webster and steven garfinkel, head of the information security oversight office, to order other federal agencies to stop forcing employees to sign the forms
one of the forms, sf 189, binds federal employees never to divulge classified or classifiable information without permission. more than 1.7 million federal employees in sensitive jobs have signed the form
the other form, sf 4193, also requires employees to seek ``prepublication review of contemplated disclosures.''
critics in congress contend the forms violate the first amendment rights of government employees. these critics argue that inclusion of ``classifiable information'' give agencies the power to punish whistleblowers by classifying information after it has already been disclosed
when it passed the continuing resolution for the 1988 fiscal year, congress said no money could be used during the fiscal year to force employees to sign the agreements or other nondisclosure forms
the brief charged that ``numerous employees have been required to sign forms sf 189 and sf 4193 since the passage of the continuing resolution.''
the plaintiffs charged that a division of the navy last month ordered its employees to sign one of the forms and the air force issued a directive last month saying ``that signing sf 189 is a prerequisite to access to classified information.''
foreign service officers, who are members of the american foreign service association, are still being required to sign sf 4193, the court papers charged
the administration has continued to implement the standard forms at issue in this case, despite congress' explicit direction in the continuing resolution that all such implementation efforts must cease. such illegal conduct should not be allowed to continue,'' the lawsuit said
sikh separatists set off bombs near courthouses in four major cities in punjab state friday, killing nine people and injuring more than 60, police said
three other people were shot to death in separate attacks in the northern state, where militant sikhs are waging a war for an independent homeland. more than 230 people have been killed this year in violence blamed on sikhs
police in new delhi issued a ``red alert'' after the explosions and asked people not to touch abandoned objects such as boxes, bags and briefcases
ravi pawar, a police spokesman, said intelligence information indicated that sikh terrorists may be planning to explode bombs in busy areas in the capital
the bombs in punjab blew up in or near courthouse compounds in the cities of gurdaspur, amritsar, patiala and hoshiarpur, killing nine people. fifty people were detained in the sikh holy city of amritsar for questioning in connection with one explosion, police reports said
in patiala, a powerful bomb blew up in a soda water factory in front of the district court building, killing three hindus and injuring one
the blast at a courthouse in hoshiarpur killed three people, including a woman, police said. two others were injured
j.p. birdhi, senior superintendent of police in gurdaspur, said two people died and 33 people were injured, six of them seriously, in a blast there
in amritsar, assailants lobbed a bomb over a wall into a crowd outside the court. one person was killed and 19 others were wounded, said izhar alam, the city police chief
he said a homemade bomb was discovered inside a liquor bottle left in a cinema hall filled with 200 people. it was turned over to bomb experts and no one was injured
also friday, four sikh extremists gunned down a security guard at a bank in patiala, police said
sikhs are a religious minority in india, representing 2 percent of the 780 million population, but they are a majority in punjab state
the state has been under direct federal rule since prime minister rajiv gandhi dismissed the moderate sikh state government last year for failing to curb terrorism
more than 1,000 people were killed last year in attacks blamed on sikhs. from pentagon officials</note>
the pentagon acknowledged late friday that the marine officer kidnapped in lebanon earlier this week was a former military aide to the secretary of defense
a spokesman dismissed suggestions, however, that the capture of lt. col. william ``rich'' higgins posed any type of major security risk to the united states
higgins was the junior military assistant to defense secretary caspar w. weinberger for two years, said dan howard, the pentagon's chief spokesman. weinberger resigned nov. 5 and was succeeded by frank carlucci
as weinberger's assistant from june 1985 to june 1987, higgins had access to and handled a variety of classified documents, but was only one of 36 individuals ``who worked in the immediate office of the secretary handling administrative work,'' howard said
higgins was kidnapped on wednesday in lebanon, where he was assigned to temporary duty with the united nations heading a group of observers attached to the u.n. truce supervision organization
howard provided a statement to reporters late friday after radio free lebanon broadcast a story in arabic quoting unnamed amal shiite moslems as saying higgins had ``an association with weinberger.''
the spokesman said the pentagon had played down higgins' background over the past two days because it did not want to aggravate the situation surrounding his kidnapping
but the united states does not believe he was kidnapped because he once worked for weinberger, howard said, nor were any restrictions violated in allowing him to leave a post in the defense secretary's office for another assignment in a country like lebanon
there was no restriction that was broken by his accepting this assignment,'' howard said. ``he (previously) handled paperwork and other administrative duties
there are no restrictions on where middle-grade officers like lt. col. higgins can be assigned following pentagon duty. his understanding of political-military affairs and his administrative abilities made him well suited for the (u.n.) position
howard said that ``for the moment, we prefer to focus our attention on his prompt and safe return, rather than on unproductive speculation on how and why this particular individual found himself in this predicament.''
asked then if the administration equated higgins' disappearance to the kidnapping of william buckley several years ago, howard replied: ``no.''
buckley was the cia station chief in lebanon and was later tortured and murdered by his kidnappers
higgins, 43, is a native of danville, ky., whose wife and daughter now live in northern virginia. his wife, robin, is a major in the marine corps
a decorated combat veteran of vietnam, higgins has alternated between field positions and staff jobs in washington through most of his career. after graduating from the air force command and staff college in 1980, higgins assumed a post in the plans division at marine corps headquarters
in june 1981, he was transferred to the pentagon and to the second-level staff serving the secretary and deputy secretary of defense. in 1982, he became the military assistant for interagency matters under the pentagon's executive secretary, meaning he was responsible for coordinating weinberger's meetings with other cabinet officials and the national security council
after leaving that post and graduating from the national war college in 1985, higgins became the junior military assistant on weinberger's personal staff
the secretary of defense normally has two such personal military aides _ one an admiral or general and the other a lower-ranking officer such as higgins
higgins remained in the job with weinberger until june 1987, when he assumed the u.n. assigment. update with pentagon statement saying higgins had worked for weinberger. picks up 5th graf pvs bgng: fewer than ...</note>
president reagan said friday that americans will not be pulled out of the u.n. observer group in lebanon despite the threat of terrorism and the kidnapping of marine lt. col. william r. higgins
reagan made his statement after defense secretary frank c. carlucci said in a television interview that u.s. officials were studying whether americans should be withdrawn from lebanon because of the abduction of higgins by gunmen in southern lebanon
the president said he was reluctant to answer questions during a photo-taking session in the oval office, but that ``on this particular subject, i feel i must straighten it out.''
denying that americans would be pulled out, reagan said, ``we are going to meet our obligations to the united nations.''
meanwhile, the pentagon acknowledged friday evening that higgins had been a military aide to the secretary of defense. a spokesman dismissed suggestions that higgins' capture posed a major security risk to the united states, and said he did not believe higgins' capture had anything to do with the fact that he had been a junior military assistant to defense secretary caspar weinberger
dan howard, the pentagon spokesman, said higgins ``handled paperwork and other administrative duties'' for weinberger from june 1985 to june 1987. he said the administration did not equate higgins' capture to that of william buckley several years ago. buckley was the cia station chief in lebanon when he was captured, tortured and murdered by his kidnappers
the pentagon provided a statement on higgins' background after radio free lebanon broadcast a story quoting unnamed amal shiite moslems as saying higgins had ``an association with weinberger.''
fewer than 20 americans are assigned to u.n. duties along the lebanese-israeli border, according to the state department
reagan said u.n. forces had been in lebanon since 1949. ``we're very definitely a part of the united nations.''
speaking about the threat of terrorism, the president said, ``of course we worry because we know that terrorists around the world targeted us as one of their targets.''
as reporters left the room, reagan turned to his guest, west german chancellor helmut kohl, and said, ``they didn't ask the question i wanted them to ask.'' reagan indicated he wanted to elaborate on his comment thursday that he wanted to ``rescue'' higgins
however, when reporters shouted a question about the ``rescue'' remark as the president left for a weekend at camp david, he did not respond
administration officials already had clarified reagan's remark, saying he was referring to diplomatic efforts through the united nations and governments in the region. reagan's comment to kohl was picked up by a boom microphone
earlier in the day, carlucci had said ``everything possible'' is being done to secure the release of higgins, the head of a 75-man, multinational observer group attached to the u.n. interim force in lebanon
higgins was abducted wednesday in southern lebanon
asked on nbc-tv's ``today'' show if other americans assigned to the effort would be withdrawn, carlucci said: ``no decision has been made. we are examining their security situation.''
carlucci said that while the americans' safety is the responsibility of the u.n., ``obviously we are concerned about our people and will work with the u.n. on it.''
meanwhile, in lebanon, a pro-iranian group calling itself the oppressed of the earth said it had kidnapped higgins, and released identity cards bearing his photograph
it claimed that higgins was doing undercover work for the cia. however, the state department has denied that higgins had any links with the cia
the group said it would release higgins following a complete israeli withdrawal from its security zone in south lebanon. it also demanded the release of an estimated 300 lebanese and palestinian prisoners held in khiam detention camp in south lebanon and the immediate cessation of u.s. activity in lebanon. bgng ``we decided...</note>
sen. bob dole said friday he is not shaken by his loss in the new hampshire presidential primary and will fare well in south dakota and minnesota, adding ``we'll see who's dispirited wednesday morning next week.''
dole also predicted he would do well in the south on super tuesday because many voters ``are last-minute christmas shopping'' for a candidate
we would have liked to have won new hampshire, but we didn't. so you back off a couple of days and get charged up again,'' dole said
we're ready to go. we're ready for the next round in south dakota and minnesota and we'll see who wins those two. we'll see who's dispirited wednesday morning next week.''
the bush campaign said friday it was pulling out of south dakota, bowing to dole's strength there
in tampa, fla., dole said he decided 10 days ago to skip the friday night debate in dallas, but he never tried to persuade fellow republican presidential candidate pat robertson to do the same
we decided one houston was enough,'' dole said of his own decision during a news conference. in houston, he said the audience was stacked with backers of rival gop candidate vice president george bush
dole denied news reports that he tried to persuade robertson to join him in dropping out of friday night's debate in dallas, which dole has criticized as being stacked in favor of bush
dole said he and robertson recently had a 20-minute talk and a couple of brief hallway encounters in new hampshire while they were snowbound at the same hotel
we talked about the campaign. that's about it,'' dole said. he denied a report that he tried to influence robertson to skip dallas during one of the hallway meetings
i just gave him the facts,'' said dole, adding that he told robertson of the ticket allocation, which he has said favors bush
dole said it appeared he would get 60 tickets out of some 2,600 available. ``it didn't seem fair to us and there'd be other opportunities for debate,'' dole said
burl osborne, editor of the dallas morning news, one of the debate's sponsors, rejected as untrue dole's complaint that his campaign didn't get as many tickets to the event as bush's forces did
osborne said friday it appeared dole and robertson ``made their decision together.'' he said he asked both camps to reconsider, but robertson said he would attend only if dole did
dole labeled as incorrect published reports that he and robertson were teaming up to try to stop bush in the south
a somber sounding dole brought his campaign to florida, stressing themes of leadership and issues. he refrained from attacking bush, a formidable foe in the sunshine state where son, jeb bush, is state commerce secretary and gov. bob martinez, a democrat-turned republican, has publicly stated his support for the vice president
obviously florida is a big cog. it's very important to all of us,'' the kansas senator said of super tuesday, the march 8 primary in 20 states, including 14 in the south
in florida, we'll discuss issues, issues of concern to the people,'' including deficit reduction, trade, agriculture, drugs, medicare and social security, dole said. higgins' pentagon background. picks up 15th graf pvs, the oppressed ... with minor editing to trim</note>
a pro-iranian group friday claimed responsibility for kidnapping a u.s. marine colonel serving with u.n. peacekeeping forces and released identity cards bearing his photograph
it alleged that lt. col. william r. higgins was a spy for the ``satanic cia.'' u.s. and u.n. officials denied the charges
in a rescue attempt, shiite moslem militiamen spent a second day searching citrus groves and cave-lined valleys for higgins, who disappeared wednesday
the searchers, who belong to the amal militia headed by justice minister nabih berri, also seized six activists of the iranian-backed hezbollah in pre-dawn house raids in tyre and accused them of involvement in the plot
higgins, 43, of danville, ky., was head of a 76-man united nations observer force in south lebanon. about 15 of the observers assigned to the force are americans
observers from the united nations truce supervisory organization work alongside the 5,800-strong united nations interim force in lebanon, deployed in 1978 at the lebanon-israel border
gunmen abducted the colonel south of tyre as he drove to unifil headquarters in the border town of naqoura. u.n. officials initially said that higgins was violating u.n. rules for travel by americans
but a u.n. spokesman in new york said friday that higgins did not violate travel restrictions
as all his predecessors, he traveled freely in the area without escort,'' said mario zamorano, a spokesman for the u.n. secretary-general
in washington, president reagan said the united states will not withdraw americans from the u.n. observer group in lebanon despite the abduction. earlier in the day, defense secretary frank carlucci had said u.s. officials were studying a withdrawal plan
the reponsibility claim came in a typewritten arabic statement from the organization of the oppressed on earth. it called higgins ``one of the biggest spies planting daily terror in our land.''
it alleged that higgins used his oberver role as a cover for espionage work
u.s. officials have denied that higgins has links with the cia, and u.n. undersecretary-general marrack goulding echoed that denial friday in a news conference at naqoura
we do not recruit spies. everyone here works for the united nations,'' he said
dan howard, the pentagon's chief spokesman, acknowledged in washington friday that higgins for two years was junior military assistant to then-defense secretary caspar w. weinberger. howard dismissed suggestions, however, that higins' capture posed any major security risk to the united states
he provided a statement to reporters after radio free lebanon broadcast a story in arabic quoting unnamed individuals as saying higgins had an association with weinberger
the oppressed of the earth said it would release higgins following a complete israeli withdrawal from its security zone in south lebanon. it also demanded the release of an estimated 300 lebanese and palestinian prisoners held in the israeli-supervised khiam detention camp in south lebanon and the immediate cessation of u.s. activity in lebanon
the communique was delivered to a western news agency in beirut along with photocopies of two identity cards, one in english and one in hebrew. both carried a picture of higgins and a signature
u.n. spokesman timur goksel said the number on one of the cards matched the number of a card that had been issued to higgins by the united nations. officials said higgins had a hebrew identity card because u.n. forces often come into contact with israeli troops
we have caught the throat of the american serpent, criminal agent of the satanic cia,'' said the statement of the shiite extremist group
it was the second responsibility claim in two days, but it was the first to be accompanied by any proof. the first came thursday in a call from a man claiming to speak for a previously unknown group calling itself the islamic revolutionary brigades
the oppressed of the earth is comprised of zealots loyal to iran's revolutionary patriarch, ayatollah ruhollah khomeini
it has claimed responsibility for hijackings, bombings and kidnappings including the abduction of 12 lebanese jews in moslem west beirut since 1984, eight of whom it said it killed
the group also claims responsibility for the june 1985 hijacking of a twa jetliner in which a u.s. navy diver was slain
the higgins abduction brings the number of foreign hostages in lebanon to 25, including nine americans. most are believed held by pro-iranian shiite extremists, whose main hezbollah militia has been challenging amal's dominance in south lebanon
amal militiamen sealed off a 300-square-mile area around tyre to block escape routes for the captors
we have done everything possible to prevent the kidnappers from moving col. higgins around,'' goulding said at the naqoura news conference
higgins was the first american whose abduction was claimed by the oppressed on earth and the third u.n. official to be abducted in south lebanon in two weeks
a swede and a norwegian serving with the u.n. relief and works agency that cares for palestinian refugees were kidnapped near the south lebanon city of sidon on feb. 5
their alleged captors have released two statements in which they accused the two scandinavians of espionage activities. unrwa has blamed their abduction on palestinians acting without political motivation or links to any organization
the afl-cio called friday on honduras to deny use of its territory to nicaraguan contra rebels and said it wants an investigation of allegations that high-ranking honduran military officers are involved in drug trafficking
in an intensely negotiated statement on central america, the u.s. labor federation also condemned what it called the nicaraguan government's continued political imprisonment of 16 trade union leaders
after supporting the withdrawal of u.s. military aid to the contras for the first time at its convention in october, the afl-cio said it is time to exert increased public pressure for ending soviet and cuban military aid to nicaragua
as usual, foreign policy issues proved to be the most contentious among the labor leaders at the meeting of the afl-cio executive council
jack sheinkman, president of the 300,000-member amalgamated clothing and textile workers union, wanted the afl-cio to call on president reagan to undertake negotiations with the soviet union on withdrawal of all outside military involvement in central america
the afl-cio council overwhelmingly rejected sheinkman's proposal, but it did include his language in a four-page policy statement noting that the sandinista government has ``belatedly ended its state of siege'' in nicaragua
earlier this week, the federation criticized ``the use of excessive force'' by israeli military forces against palestinian civilians over the past two months in the israeli-occupied west bank and gaza strip
but at a reception thursday night hosted by israeli trade unions, afl-cio president lane kirkland complained that the criticism _ the first ever by the federation of israeli actions in the middle east _ had been misinterpreted as a condemnation of israel itself
he called the federation's statement ``one of the strongest reaffirmations of afl-cio support for the democratic state of israel ... that we have ever made.'' items seized, comment from man's attorney; no pickup; a version also moved on the financial wire.</note>
a trader implicated in wall street's insider-trading scandal was accused friday of plotting to shoot financier ivan boesky and charged with weapons possession and trying to intimidate a government witness
john a. mulheren, a general partner in the firm jamie securities co., was arrested near his rumson, n.j., home thursday in possession of an israeli-made semiautomatic rifle, said monmouth county assistant prosecutor alton kenney
the loaded rifle and army fatigue-type clothing were found in his car, authorities said
mulheren was ordered held at monmouth county jail on $17,500 bond friday on charges of illegal weapons possession
a complaint filed against mulheren alleged the weapon was to be used ``against the person or property'' of boesky, who is at the center of an insider-trading scandal that has shaken the financial world
the complaint also mentioned a possible attack against michael davidoff, a former head trader for boesky who is cooperating in an investigation of the financial scandal
authorities declined to say why they believed mulheren was plotting against boesky and davidoff. mulheren once was a close associate of boesky and has been implicated in the government's investigation of wall street corruption
in september, the wall street journal quoted unidentified sources as saying mulheren was cooperating with the government as a result of boesky's disclosures. it said the investigation could lead to charges against mulheren
meanwhile in new york city, federal prosecutors charged mulheren with attempting to intimidate a government witness formerly employed by boesky
the witness was identified in court papers only as ``witness x.'' prosecutors refused to say whether the witness is davidoff
the complaint quoted mulheren's wife as telling police he had been ``extremely upset by the boesky situation'' and ``was armed and was going to get'' the witness
kenney said police went to mulheren's home thursday and seized a 9mm pistol, a .357-caliber magnum revolver and a shotgun from the family car, but mulheren was not arrested then because he was licensed for the weapons
in april, boesky pleaded guilty to a criminal charge in the insider-trading scandal and was sentenced in december to three years in prison. he is scheduled to begin serving the sentence next month
his whereabouts were not immediately known friday. his attorney, harvey pitt, did not return telephone calls seeking comment
fred m. stone, a lawyer for jamie, said the company's partners are discussing possible action as a result of mulheren's arrest
stone also released a statement from mulheren's attorney otto obermaier, who said: ``it is known that john mulheren has been upset by the investigation by regulatory authorities of securities activities and by the rumors and publicity which developed which he felt unfairly impugned his honesty and integrity
the important thing now is for him to get help and support to permit him to resume a normal and constructive life. he is in the process of seeking required medical assistance.''
the united states and the four other permanent members of the u.n. security council tentatively agreed on a draft working paper calling for an arms embargo of iran, sources said friday
the diplomatic sources, speaking on condition of anonymity, called the draft a significant step toward an embargo sought by the united states and other western nations
both iran and iraq, at war since september 1980, depend on arms imports
the soviet union and china have been reluctant to implement an embargo before further diplomatic efforts by u.n secretary-general javier perez de cuellar
u.s. secretary of state george p. shultz is expected to discuss the proposed embargo when he goes to moscow on sunday
the sources said the draft resolution may be the subject of long negotiations before the 15 council members come to any agreement
it is a `nonpaper' on which the five will continue to work and on which the opinions of the other 10 members are welcome,'' one source said
the sources said the council was expected to discuss whether to identify iran by name and whether to mention an international naval peacekeeping force in the persian gulf, as proposed by the soviet union
the sources said the ``big five'' agreed thursday on the working paper calling for an arms embargo against iran. the paper was distributed friday to the other 10 council members, the sources said
the five permanent members are the united states, britain, china, france and the soviet union. the other 10 are algeria, argentina, brazil, italy, japan, nepal, west germany, senegal, yugoslavia and zambia
the united states is president of the security council this month
the specific contents of the working paper were not known, but it was based on a british proposal for a two-year arms embargo against iran unless that country makes peace with iraq
the british proposal would have the security council order all nations to stop supplying war materiel and military training to iran and cancel military contracts
on july 20 the security council adopted resolution 598, demanding an immediate cease-fire in the iran-iraq war, a troop withdrawal, prisoner exchange and other measures. it also called for enforcement steps if either party did not comply
iraq has said it accepts the resolution as written. but iran has sought to rearrange various elements in it and to brand iraq the aggressor
despite the secretary-general's consultations with both sides and his mission to the gulf in september, the security council initiative has foundered
the soviet union and other nations that seek better ties with iran have been reluctant to push for punitive enforcement and to offend the tehran government
the united states, the soviet union and several european nations have naval fleets in the persian gulf to protect their shipping from attacks related to the war
iran raids third-country ships to retaliate for iraqi attacks on its oil targets. iran focuses its raids on ships linked to kuwait or other gulf arab countries that it accuses of aiding iraq
a man who was briefly jailed on suspicion of rape but never charged was libeled by a newspaper that reported his arrest, a jury found friday in ordering the paper to pay him $1 million
the verdict against the battle creek enquirer came under a new standard for libel set by michigan's supreme court
i'm just so happy. it's been a long time coming,'' said the plaintiff, david rouch, 52. ``i just know it's going to help other people, too.''
the six-member calhoun county jury deliberated nearly four hours over two days before returning the verdict. rouch, a mechanic for a cereal company, had sought $500,000
the newspaper, which is owned by the gannett co., will appeal, said robert bernius, attorney for the battle creek enquirer
the suit claimed rouch suffered humiliation, emotional distress and damage to his reputation because the newspaper reported his 1979 arrest on suspicion of raping a 17-year-old baby sitter
the suit initially sought $1 million, but judge stephen miller on thursday threw out the half of the suit asking for punitive damages, which he said could not be awarded because rouch had failed to prove the paper acted with malice
but rouch was able to seek actual damages under a new standard for libel set by michigan's supreme court, which ordered the case to trial
the high court said libel could be found in cases in which a publication was negligent, or in which it failed to exercise reasonable care in publishing information
that ruling set aside an earlier standard that said the information, to be libelous, had to be published with malice, or with knowledge of its falsity
after his arrest in 1979, rouch spent about seven hours in jail, then was released on personal recognizance bond and ordered to appear for arraignment, or formal charging
the case against against went no further, and police four months later arrested and charged another man. charges against the second man later were dismissed
the newspaper printed a retraction one year later after receiving complaints from rouch and his attorney
rouch wiped his eyes after the verdict was read and rushed to a telephone to call his son with the news
about this retraction, if they had printed it three or four days later, i wouldn't have sued,'' rouch said at a tavern where he celebrated with friends. ``i wouldn't have done anything.''
bernius and newspaper publisher robert miller jr. declined comment beyond saying there would be an appeal. police</head> 3rd graf pvs, `there's a ...' inserts one graf after 4th graf pvs, `brom appeared ...' to add psychiatric exam ordered; subs grafs 7, `the bodies ...' and 17, `each victim ...' to correct name to paulette sted paullette; subs 13th graf pvs, `classmates wept ...' to add classmates passing notes to the boy.</note>
a teen-ager was charged friday in the ax slayings of his parents, a brother and sister as friends puzzled over the change in the studious, churchgoing boy who gave himself a punk haircut the day of the killings
david brom, 16, who had shaved the sides of his head and fashioned his hair into a spiked style, was arrested after an all-night manhunt
there's a lot of tears here,'' said mike leahy, principal at lourdes high school, where brom was a sophomore. ``there is surprise, shock and disbelief. ... it may subside for a short while, but it will return.''
brom appeared calm during a 15-minute arraignment in which he was charged with four counts of first-degree murder and eight counts of second-degree murder. the charges allege different degrees of premeditation or intent. he did not enter a plea
county attorney raymond schmitz said the boy was ordered to undergo psychiatric examination and was being held under a 24-hour watch at the olmsted county jail
according to the complaint, ``one person indicated that on feb. 17, david brom said he was going to kill his parents that night, and another person indicated that she had a telephone conversation with david brom on feb. 18 during which he told her he had killed his parents.''
no one knew except the friends he told, and they didn't tell anyone,'' said charles von wald, olmsted county sheriff. a rumor about the killings finally reached teachers at brom's school, and they notified authorities
the bodies of bernard brom, 41, his wife, paulette, about 40, and children diane, 14, and rick, 9, were found in their nightclothes thursday evening at their home in suburban cascade township, von wald said
the four were believed to have been slain early thursday morning, he said. a bloody, 28-inch ax was found in the basement
another 16-year-old who spoke with brom hours before the bodies were found told authorities there had been a dispute between the boy and his father
he indicated he was having some trouble with his parents,'' von wald said. ``one student said he was having trouble with his dad because of a tape he had bought, and he didn't want him listening to it.''
von wald and police officials declined to say what the tape contained or whether it had been seized by authorities
the killings cast a pall over this southwestern minnesota city of 60,000, which prides itself on being the home of the mayo clinic and on its highly educated population
classmates wept at a mass at the roman catholic school, and neighbors said they had no reason to believe the family was anything but close-knit and loving. about 20 students attended the hearing and tried to hand the boy notes of support
there's no indication there was any difficulty in the family,'' said the rev. syl brown of the pax christi roman catholic church. ``it's an exemplary family ... very active in every aspect of the parish. it's a mystery to me.''
brom attended church every week, he said
added von wald: ``he babysat for the neighbors, and recently babysat for another neighbor.''
each victim had been hit in the head at least once, the sheriff said. bernard and rick brom's bodies were found in their upstairs bedrooms, and paulette and diane brom's bodies in an upstairs hallway, the sheriff said
we believe the father and son were probably surprised and didn't have a chance to defend themselves,'' von wald said. ``we believe the mother and daughter were going to investigate and were confronted.''
richard o'dell, a neighbor, recounted how brom had shoveled his driveway two weeks ago during a heavy snowstorm. ``he was a very pleasant fellow. he always had a smile,'' o'dell told the rochester post-bulletin
police were called to the house about 5:30 p.m. on a tip from an unidentified school official. after a nightlong search, brom was apprehended at a post office
the boy had purchased a wig and makeup, possibly for use as a disguise, von wald said
authorities have talked with another son, joseph, 19, who does not live at home, ``and are satisfied he was not involved,'' von wald said
the pentagon on friday released videotape and still photographs of last week's incident in which two navy warships were deliberately bumped by soviet vessels in the black sea
the photographs document the pentagon's assertion the destroyer uss caron and cruiser uss yorktown were hit on purpose by the soviet ships
indeed, the videotape shows the yorktown was bumped not once as originally reported, but twice as it steamed on a straight course
the feb. 12 confrontation occurred off the soviet union's crimea peninsula after the two navy vessels were ordered to assert their international navigation rights by sailing within 12 miles of the soviet coast
unlike the united states, which claims a three-mile territorial limit, the soviet union claims a 12-mile limit along its coast. the united states insists that any country claiming 12 miles must still allow for ``innocent passage'' by foreign ships through waters beyond three miles
the soviets have charged the navy warships provoked the incident by ignoring warnings to move beyond 12 miles and by maneuvering dangerously around their ships
the videotape does not show the american vessels maneuvering at all, but rather the two soviet ships approaching them on an angle and then moving in for the collision
in the footage shot aboard the yorktown, american sailors can be heard in the background swearing and yelling, ``he's going to hit'' and ``brace, brace.''
while only minor damage was caused, the first collision between the yorktown and a soviet frigate was sufficiently strong that the cameraman lost control of his camera. 11th pvs: `he fought ...' to conform</note>
rene char, called ``the greatest french poet of the 20th century'' by premier jacques chirac, died in paris friday, according to the publishing company gallimard. he was 80
gallimard said he died at the military hospital of val-de-grace. it did not disclose the cause of death
among char's most famous poems are ``hammer without a master,'' written in 1934, and ``return uphill,'' written in 1966
hammer without a master'' was later set to music by pierre boulez
char also wrote criticism and plays for nearly half a century
rene char was without doubt the greatest french poet of the 20th century,'' chirac said in a statement
char is to be buried tuesday in isle-sur-la-sorgue, the provencal village where he was born on june 14, 1907
his poetry borrowed imagery from nature and from his childhood in southern france
after completing his education at the university in aix-en-provence, he moved to paris where he became friendly with the surrealists andre breton and paul eluard
char also was friends with the artists pablo picasso, georges braque and nicolas de stael
he fought against the forces of rebel general francisco franco in the spanish civil war and led a resistance unit in the french alps during world war ii under the nom de guerre ``captain alexander.''
he was later awarded the medal of the resistance and the croix de guerre and was named to the legion of honor
in 1945, char moved to the luberon mountains, not far from his birthplace
in our darkness, there is not a place for beauty,'' he once said. ``every place is for beauty.'' to update with debates; inserts 6 grafs after 17th graf pvs bgng: the democrats ... and subs grafs 18-20th pvs bgng: on the ... with 5 grafs to update. picks up 21st graf pvs bgng: dole, campaigning ..., editing to tighten. ^by rita beamish</note>
vice president george bush suggested friday that gop presidential rival bob dole was ``angry and bitter'' over his loss in new hampshire but dole countered ``we'll see who's dispirited'' after tuesday's midwestern contests. democratic national chairman paul kirk told his squabbling presidential candidates to cool it
the democratic candidates save sen. albert gore jr. debated in st. paul, minn., ahead of the south dakota primary and minnesota caucuses, while the republicans debated over a debate that dwindled to just two candidates
rep. richard gephardt and massachusetts gov. michael dukakis drew fire from their democratic presidential rivals in the free-wheeling debate that indicated their status following wins in iowa and new hampshire
at the republican debate in dallas, reduced to a one-on-one event by the refusal of dole and pat robertson to participate, both bush and rep. jack kemp said they regretted the boycott and said it would hurt their opponents
bush and kemp clashed bitterly over nuclear defense strategy, as bush asserted the new york congressman won't understand war until ``you've seen your fellow man drop dead.''
in oklahoma city earlier, bush suggested that dole was brooding over new hampshire
you learn that the rodeo is full of hard encounters with the ground and you learn to pick yourself up and dust yourself off and get back on the horse again,'' bush said
so you don't get angry and bitter when you get defeated. you pick yourself back up and get back on the horse and go on and win the next election.''
but in lexington, ky., dole shrugged off bush
we're ready to go. we're ready for the next round in south dakota and minnesota and we'll see who wins those two. we'll see who's dispirited wednesday morning next week,'' he said
with only a few days to go, a bush aide said the campaign was ``pulling out'' of south dakota
we're going to concentrate our resources on the south. and dole got an enormous bump from iowa,'' said the aide, who did not want to be identified
gore skipped the democratic debate to make a money run to california, where he took a question about which of his rivals were democratic deadwood
mike dukakis, jesse jackson and dick gephardt _ all three represent an old approach that has been associated with losing four out of the last five elections,'' he said
and rival sen. paul simon of illinois reversed his earlier statement that he could not continue his campaign unless he won either south dakota or minnesota next week
i'm in this race until atlanta,'' simon said first in sioux falls, s.d., then in minneapolis. ``and we're going to begin with the strongest show of support we can muster from committed democrats in south dakota and minnesota who seek a fundamental change in america's direction.''
after watching republican bickering from afar, kirk wrote a ``dear candidate'' letter that said, ``i simply want to urge all our candidates to resist any ... kind of negative personal attacks that smack of desperation and do nothing to enhance the opportunity for a democratic victory in november.'' the letter was written thursday _ just hours before the democratic candidates fought out their dallas debate
with the letter in the mail, longshot candidate gary hart made it clear he hopes for a brokered convention, which would be kirk's worst nightmare
it will be for the convention to decide,'' hart said in minneapolis. ``there is the chance now, for the first time in 30 or 40 years, for a convention to decide this nomination.''
the democrats focused on midwestern voters, hoping that good showings in tuesday's south dakota primary or minnesota caucuses would serve as an image and momentum booster
jesse jackson drew hoots from the crowd during the democratic debate when he asked gephardt if he was ``proud of your vote for the reagan tax cut in 1981.''
the missouri congressman defended his overall tax voting record, saying most of that tax cut ``went to ordinary people.''
that was the trigger of this whole deficit crisis,'' jackson said
dukakis, the winner of the new hampshire primary, complained that ``my name was taken in vain'' by hart, who demanded to know why dukakis had not followed his example and released a budget proposal
the reason my colleagues have not put out budgets is because they don't want to tell the american people the facts,'' hart said
i'm the only person on this platform who has balanced a budget,'' retorted dukakis
on the republican side, friday night's dallas debate dwindled to a cozy twosome between bush and kemp. the bush campaign considered standing up the dallas crowd but decided to go through with it. for his part, kemp openly relished the opportunity of a one-on-one with bush
they couldn't get me out of here with a crowbar,'' he said
in an exchange over the intermediate-range nuclear forces treaty and other arms issues, bush pointed out that kemp opposes the inf treaty and said it would be wrong to support ``premature development'' of a defense shield. ``i want to reach out for peace, and i'm sorry, but i think it is good to be doing that,'' bush said
kemp told bush, ``you have yet to mention how important it is for this country to stand up for something other than peace.''
the vice president shot back: ``i was in combat (during world war ii). i don't think you know what it is until you've seen your fellow man drop dead.''
dole, campaigning in tampa, fla., denied he had collaborated with robertson to boycott the dallas debate. dole said he didn't want to be part of a bush ``pep rally'' in a state where the vice president once lived and was elected tothe u.s. house
bush, on the campaign trail in oklahoma city, denied dole's assertion that the dallas event would be stacked against dole because more tickets were given to bush supporters
in nevada, bush took the lead in a presidential straw poll tallied in the early morning hours, with 27 percent of the vote
but robertson backers claimed a delegate victory by combining undecided ballots (23 percent) and votes for their candidate (15 percent)
dole had 22 percent and kemp was the choice of 13 percent
steve wark, robertson coordinator in nevada, claimed most of the undecided votes, saying they were cast by robertson supporters as part of a strategy to keep bush and dole guessing until upcoming county conventions. `the death ...' with tree dimension; subs 8th graf, `falling trees ...' to update number of trees; inserts 2 grafs after 9th graf, `thirty utility ...' with quote; picks up 10th graf, `offshore, coast ...'; subs grafs 14-16, `about 25 ...' with 4 grafs to update homeless numbers; picks up 17th graf, `fallen power ...</note>
the second blast of fierce santa ana winds in a week raked southern california, felling trees that killed a child, downing dozens of power lines and fanning fires that left 56 people homeless friday
damage to campuses and danger from flying debris forced a school district to cancel classes for 20,000 students, and the coast guard searched the stormy ocean for a missing yachtsman
the latest blast of high wind hit late thursday and before dawn friday and reached 70 mph at monument peak in san diego county, where interstate 8 was temporarily closed, and 50 mph at ontario international airport, the national weather service said
however, high wind warnings were canceled when the wind-generating high pressure system over nevada and utah weakened. the wind whistling over the mountains, deserts and coastal canyons was expected to end by saturday morning
santa ana winds are caused by high pressure areas over utah and nevada which send air flowing down into california. although they are commonly associated with insufferable summer heat, santa anas are very common in february, said weather service forecaster bob grebe
the death toll for the week's winds reached five late thursday when gusts up to 60 mph hit yosemite national park, knocking down a 180-foot ponderosa pine that crushed 9-year-old jasmine bitts of garden grove, calif., when it fell on a cabin. the girl's mother and a companion suffered minor injuries
hundreds of campers were ordered from the area, but it was reopened by midmorning, said park spokeswoman lisa dapprich
twenty trees fell in the area, damaging five cabins and a number of vehicles, she said
thirty utility poles toppled in the morning in san bernardino county, blacking out 6,300 southern california edison customers in the rialto area, said spokeswoman pat messigian. the los angeles department of water and power reported 28,000 customers with outages. in all, 112,000 customers lost power at one time or another
socal edison area manager ray gonzalez estimated gusts ranged from 80 mph to 90 mph where the poles were downed. he said he came across 22 downed poles on his way to work and saw other poles fall when he went out on a survey
i heard a snap, looked behind me and noticed that six poles just fell down,'' he said. no one was hurt
offshore, coast guard aircraft and a cutter searched for chris dodd, 28, of los altos, who was reported overdue thursday. his 30-foot boat failed to show up wednesday in san pedro after setting sail from santa catalina island in high seas, said petty officer james mcpherson
the fontana school district, below the san gabriel mountains 50 miles east of los angeles, gave 20,100 students the day off friday because of the wind, said carl coleman, a district planning official
one school had roof damage and gusts destroyed covered walkways at a high school, he said
in los angeles, six people were injured when an unfinished apartment building caught fire shortly after midnight and wind-swept embers spread the blaze to a 10-unit apartment complex and four other structures
twenty-four people were left homeless. damage was put at $345,000
in east los angeles, an early morning fire in a commercial building spread to three houses before firefighters doused it, said los angeles county fire spokesman bob haskell
twenty-three people were left homeless by that fire, which was caused when wind-blown electrical wires touched and created a short circuit over a roofing company, sending sparks onto two propane tanks. damage was estimated at $500,000
another fire in the mount washington area forced nine people from their homes
fallen power lines set a home ablaze in suburban la canada flintridge but firefighters stopped the flames from spreading. a family of four was treated for smoke inhalation
we were lucky. it could have been a major disaster,'' said fire battalion chief frank reavis
earlier in the week, the high wind caused four deaths
one man was electrocuted when a power line blew down and the other three were killed in a highway accident triggered when a truck buffeted by wind slewed off a highway and into two stopped cars
an estimated 500,000 utility customers lost power during wednesday's wind
u.s. air force fighters intercepted two soviet bombers off the east coast of canada on friday evening, according to a brief statement issued by the canadian department of national defense
norad, the north american air defense command, detected the long-range tupolev bears by radar when they entered the canadian air defense identification zone without notification, the department said
the incident marks the fifth time this year that soviet military aircraft have been intercepted. the interception was under operational control of the canadian norad region headquarters in north bay, ontario, the statement said
interceptor aircraft stand on 24-hour alert to be scrambled within five minutes if an incoming aircraft is detected by radar and cannot be correlated with a flight plan
the interceptor force carries out the norad task of controlling access to sovereign canadian and u.s. airspace in peacetime and, in the event of hostilities, would provide defense against an attack on north america from bombers and cruise missiles
norad, based in cheyenne mountain near colorado springs, colo., controls canadian and american air defense
republican presidential candidates george bush and jack kemp clashed bitterly over nuclear defense strategy friday night, as bush asserted the new york congressman won't understand war until ``you've seen your fellow man drop dead.''
at the outset of the debate, reduced to a one-on-one event when sen. bob dole and pat robertson canceled a day earlier, both bush and kemp said they regretted the boycott and said it would hurt their opponents
i think they made a big mistake,'' bush said. ``i'm disappointed they're not here.''
kemp, who has finished far behind bush and dole in the iowa caucuses and new hampshire primaries, drew laughter from the audience when he said, ``i'm glad to see the race coming down to a two-man race.''
a former professional football quarterback, he referred to comments by dole and robertson that they feared the audience would be weighted heavily in favor of bush, who claims texas as one of his homes
i have played a lot of stadiums (where) i didn't particularly appreciate the response,'' kemp said. ``but if you're competitive you play where the action is.''
as the two debated, robertson was holding a rally with supporters at the same posh dallas hotel where bush and his entourage were staying. dole returned to washington from a campaign trip
bush, his presidential candidacy revived last week with a victory in new hampshire, portrayed himself as loyal to president reagan on numerous questions. but in their close, it was kemp who sought to snatch the mantle of ronald reagan
i believe in the reagan revolution and i want to carry it into the 1990s,'' he said
he made a similar statement during the testy exchange on nuclear defenses, prompting bush to snap back, ``then why don't you support the inf (intermediate nuclear force) treaty?''
kemp came to the debate seeming to relish the opportunity to confront bush without his other rivals on national television
he took the offensive when a question was raised about creation of a ``limited missile defense'' instead of the wide-ranging strategic defense initiative now being pursued as a nuclear defense
i'd build one if the sdi research ended up suggesting we could have a sound, perfected defense,'' the vice president replied
there exchange grew more intense as bush said the joint chiefs of staff would oppose a more limited defense system and that the administration was trying to produce ``an impenetrable nuclear shield.''
kemp shot back that the soviet union has ``already broken out of'' the anti-ballistic missile (abm) treaty and said, ``i strongly differ with the vice president on this issue. ... if elected president, i would research, test and develop a nuclear missile defense.''
bush said it would be wrong to support ``premature development'' of a defense shield
i want to reach out for peace, and i'm sorry, but i think it is good to be doing that,'' bush said
bush's reference to his world war ii record came after kemp asserted that the country must ``stand up for something'' beyond peace alone
the vice president shot back: ``i was in combat. i don't think you know what it is until you've seen your fellow man drop dead.''
kemp snapped: ``i don't need a lecture.''
the absent dole and robertson came in for criticism too. kemp, at the invitation of a questioner, said dole had supported ``five major tax increases.''
kemp displayed mock outrage when asked about the discussions dole and robertson held before both pulled out of the debate
i would be shocked if there was an alliance between bob dole and pat robertson,'' kemp said
his comments had a touch of irony because he for a time had an alliance with robertson to try to stop bush in michigan's complicated delegate-selection system
dole pulled out of the debate saying he feared it would become a pep rally for bush
robertson, the former television preacher who finished second ahead of bush in iowa but trailed badly in new hampshire, followed dole in pulling out. his aides said they thought the event was stacked in bush's favor
the result was a rare and unexpected opportunity for kemp to share the stage with only bush in an event televised nationally on selected public broadcasting stations. the debate was held on the southern methodist university campus
kemp has sought to establish himself as the conservative alternative to bush and dole. but he finished a distant fourth in iowa's caucuses and third, with 13 percent of the vote, in new hampshire
across town, robertson attended a rally with 1,200 supporters and told them, ``there was a debate tonight and we understood they weren't going to give our supporters but 60 tickets to sit up in the balcony, and i wasn't about to go because you needed to be represented and i'd rather be with you here.''
earlier in the day dole denied the assertion of the debate's sponsors that he had tried to persuade robertson to join him in dropping out of the debate. he acknowledged discussing it with robertson while in new hampshire, however
i just gave him the facts,'' said dole
burl osborne, editor of the dallas morning news, one of the debate's sponsors, rejected as untrue dole's complaint that his campaign didn't get as many tickets to the event as bush's forces did
osborne said after talking with robertson friday that it appeared dole and robertson made their decision ``in concert.''
the only assumption that i can make is dole has written texas off,'' osborne said
the fifth gop candidate dropped out of the presidential race a day before the debate, former gov. pete du pont of delaware
a commuter plane crashed near raleigh-durham airport on friday night and all 12 people aboard were feared dead, an airport spokeswoman said
american eagle flight 378 was en route richmond, va., with 10 passengers and two crew members aboard when it went down in a wooded area at 9:27 p.m., said the spokeswoman, teresa damiano
there are no anticipated survivors,'' she said. american eagle is a subsidiary of american airlines. update with largest piece of debris re-entering atmosphere, size of smallest and largest pieces. corrects agency to space command, sted norad.</note>
a soviet rocket failed after its launch and destroyed three satellites, and u.s. defense officials said friday the accident sent large chunks of debris hurtling to earth
the official tass news agency, in a rare report of mishap in the soviets' commercial space program, gave few details of the accident. the untimely release of the satellites suggests the unmanned proton rocket exploded
tass said in its dispatch thursday that the destroyed satellites _ named cosmos 1917, 1918 and 1919 _ were designed to test elements and equipment of a space navigation system
kremlin officials have touted the soviet space program as a reliable means of deploying weather and navigation equipment for foreign organizations in the wake of similar failures in the u.s. space program
in colorado springs, colo., u.s. space command officials said debris believed to be from the blast landed off australia and somewhere between saudi arabia and turkey
the largest chunk, believed to be the fourth stage and payload, re-entered the earth's atmosphere friday afternoon between saudi arabia and turkey, said spokesman cmdr. dugald gillies
it was not known whether any of that debris, estimated to measure about 100 square feet, actually hit the earth's surface, said gillies
bob hollie, another space command spokesman, said the portion of rocket that landed near australia measured about 72 square feet
we do have another piece up there but it is significantly smaller and still orbiting with no predicted re-entry time. it is maybe a meter (yard) by a meter'' in size, said hollie
tass said the proton rocket was launched wednesday, ``but because of a malfunction in this unit the sputniks could not be placed on the required orbit.''
tass said the rocket placed the separation unit holding the satellites on an interim orbit, but the system then malfunctioned and the satellites fell from orbit
on february 18 the sputniks entered dense layers of the atmosphere and ceased their existence,'' it said
soviet rockets each year carry dozens of satellites into orbit for national use and for foreign contractors, primarily from kremlin-allied nations
tass announced last august that a 10-ton satellite had failed to reach orbit. the report apparently was the first time soviets announced beforehand that one of its satellites was dropping from orbit
that satellite fell into the ocean without causing any damage or injuries. news digest: washington-budget rdp, a0428; washington-budget-analysis, a0427; washington-budget-defense, a0425; washington-reagan-economy, a0431; vatican city-pope-encyclical; a0525; tyre-lebanon-kidnap, a0504; west allis-jansen's fall, a0486; undated-political rdp, a0467; dallas-democrats debate, a0494; washington-trans-atlantic unity, a0438;paris-france-heidegger, a0419; san diego-stroke-recovery, a0492.</note>
seeking to break an impasse in peace talks, cardinal miguel obando y bravo urged contra rebels to accept a 30-day truce in exchange for four major concessions from nicaragua's sandinista government
the contras said they accepted ``in principle'' the proposal forwarded thursday night. the leftist sandinistas called it ``interesting and constructive,'' but said it needed clarification
obando y bravo, leader of nicaragua's roman catholics, is mediating the talks, which were to resume today
the nation's homeless could form a significant voting bloc if they went to the polls, but legal and social hurdles stand in the way of people with more pressing concerns of finding their next meal and keeping warm
estimates of the number of homeless americans vary widely, from the 360,000 reported in a 1986 economic research study to up to 3 million claimed by some advocacy groups
it's a very difficult number to get at, because it's a difficult population to count,'' said james stimpson of the department of housing and urban development
rep. mario biaggi, convicted in one trial and facing another, will become the first house member since 1980 and only the second since the civil war to be drummed out of congress if the house accepts the recommendation of its ethics committee
biaggi says he'll go the house floor to fight the recommendation made thursday by the ethics panel, which cited biaggi's conviction in september for obstruction of justice and accepting illegal gratuities
this fight is far from over,'' said the 10-term democrat from the bronx, n.y. ``i am bitterly disappointed by the committee's action, coming as it does before my appeal has even been heard.''
authorities today launched one of the largest police operations in israeli history, in which 1,500 volunteer officers will patrol jerusalem's arab neighborhoods around the clock to head off arab riots
national police commissioner david krauss said the operation aims to curb an anticipated new wave of unrest linked to the visit of u.s. secretary of state george p. shultz, who is scheduled to leave for the middle east next wednesday
israel radio said that in the first stage of the operation, 600 officers were stationed today at the sacred temple mount, the site every friday of moslem prayers and, since the riots began, anti-israeli demonstrations
douglas edwards, walter cronkite's predecessor and the nation's first nightly television news anchor, is retiring april 1 after 46 years with cbs
edwards, who covered world war ii on radio with the legendary edward r. murrow, says he's ``a little sad, but exhilirated'' about retirement
i've had a daily tv news report without a break since april 15, 1948, which is a record, almost 40 years now,'' edwards said thursday. he laughed and added: ``that and a dollar will get you a ride on the subway.''
the government has ordered a blanket suspension of the use of a popular industrial device blamed for leaking tiny radioactive particles at more than 100 plants around the nation
the nuclear regulatory commission on thursday also ordered the 3m corp. to recover and test all 45,000 of the suspect devices, ionizing air guns used to control static electricity and remove dust from product containers
robert bernero, deputy director of the nrc's office of nuclear materials safety, said that of 828 plants inspected so far, ``detectable'' _ though virtually harmless _ contamination had been found at 118. of those, he identified 39 plants where the radiation exceeded the reportable limit of 0.005 microcuries. news digest: tyre, lebanon _ am-lebanon-kidnap; undated _ am-political rdp; new york _ am-post sale; jerusalem _ israel-assess;caen, france _ am-bomb expert.</note>
arabs and israeli soldiers fought with stones and tear gas after friday moslem prayers, a weekly ritual in the occupied lands since riots began dec. 8, and hundreds of police reinforcements moved into jerusalem
no deaths or serious injuries were reported during clashes in the west bank and gaza strip, which israel has occupied since capturing them from jordan and egypt in the 1967 middle east war. fifty-five palestinians have been killed in the 10 weeks of violence, according to u.n. figures
neil kinnock, leader of britain's opposition labor party who is visiting israel, said soldiers are using soft-nosed dumdum bullets, which expand when they hit a target and cause greater damage. israeli officials have denied similar charges by palestinian doctors
secretary of state george p. shultz ``most likely'' will visit syria when he goes to the middle east next week and is leaving his options open for a return to the region after a nato summit meeting in early march, u.s. officials said friday
as shultz set out for moscow on a trip in which he will seek soviet backing for his peace-making venture, his mideast journey was taking on dramatic new proportions
shultz's purpose in going to damascus would be to discuss the u.s. drive for arab-israeli negotiations with president hafez assad, whose support for any long-term settlement in the middle east is considered essential by specialists in the state department's near east bureau
the parents of convicted spy jonathan j. pollard said friday that navy investigators showed him a list of names of 25 american jews and asked him to identify those who helped him commit espionage for israel
they kept badgering him to indicate which of those on the list was involved in the spy plot,'' said morris pollard, a professor of microbiology at the university of notre dame
both the senior pollard and his son denied that jonathan pollard had an accomplice in spying for israel. their statement came after the washington post reported friday that government investigators had concluded that someone in the cia or defense department also had spied for israel
pope john paul ii on friday blamed the rivalry between east and west for social and economic ills in the third world and delivered a sweeping indictment of totalitarianism, materialism and the ``all-consuming desire for profit.''
in his seventh encyclical, the pope accused both the u.s.- and soviet-led blocs of imposing ``imperialism'' and ``structures of sin'' on developing nations, reducing them to ``cogs on a gigantic wheel.''
he also said the rivalry between the east and west was main reason for the widening gap between rich and poor countries
a young prosecutor in miami stumbled onto oliver north's secret nicaraguan arms supply network eight months before it burst into public view, but was stymied by superiors when he tried to get the case to a grand jury, according to newly released documents
jeffrey feldman, an assistant u.s. attorney, told investigators he first presented his then-sketchy information to the u.s. ambassador in costa rica, who ``turned white'' when he saw north's name at top of a chart showing the supply network
feldman said he and two fbi investigators with him in costa rica ``were being treated like the enemy'' after showing their information to ambassador lewis tambs _ a key link in north's network, according to testimony at the iran-contra hearings
nicaraguan president daniel ortega instructed his negotiators not to discuss a new peace proposal with contra rebels, a sandinista adviser said friday. the order appeared to bring the peace talks to a halt
the u.s.-supported rebels also expressed reservations about the proposal made thursday night by cardinal miguel obando y bravo. they said there was a danger in the mediator's request for their acceptance of an as yet undefined cease-fire in exchange for four major concessions by the leftist government
ortega said he was willing to discuss the proposal directly with obando y bravo, but not with the contras at the peace talks, said paul reichler, a washington, d.c. attorney advising the nicaraguan government in the negotiations
a teen-ager was charged friday with the ax slaying of his parents, a brother and a sister as authorities and friends puzzled for a key to the sudden change in the studious, church-going youth
david brom, 16, who shaved the sides of his head and fashioned his hair into spiked punk style the day of the slayings, was arrested after an all-night manhunt
there's a lot of tears here,'' said mike leahy, principal at lourdes high school, where brom was a sophomore. ``there is surprise, shock and disbelief. ... it may subside for a short while, but it will return.''
a crowd of 75 people waved signs and released blue balloons friday in support of dallas police, after officers killed two men who threatened them with weapons in separate incidents this week
minority leaders and the city council have berated the department for the past two years for being too trigger-happy when confronting suspects, especially blacks and hispanics, but others have rallied around police
there have been police casualties, too, including two officers slain last month
the second blast of fierce santa ana winds in a week raked southern california, felling trees that killed a child, downing dozens of power lines and fanning fires that left about 50 people homeless friday
damage to buildings and danger from flying debris forced a school district to cancel classes for 20,000 students, and the coast guard searched the stormy ocean for a missing yachtsman
the latest blast of high wind hit late thursday and before dawn friday and reached 70 mph at monument peak in san diego county, where interstate 8 was temporarily closed, and 50 mph at ontario international airport, the national weather service said
president reagan defended his tax and budget policies friday in an election-year economic report to congress, saying his administration had turned economic despair into hope
reagan's seventh annual economic report brushed off accusations by democratic presidential candidates that a $2.4 trillion national debt and record trade imbalances during the reagan years had hobbled the country and eventually would reduce americans' standard of living
beryl sprinkel, the president's chief economic adviser, said the new economic report was aimed at debunking ``myths'' that the country had become a second-rate economic power
president reagan and west german chancellor helmut kohl agreed friday to devise a comprehensive western arms control strategy to confront the soviet union with ``realism, strength and alliance unity.''
kohl ended a two-day trip to washington with a meeting and lunch at the white house in which he and reagan congratulated each other on the recently signed intermediate-range nuclear forces treaty and hailed a nato effort to sort out potentially conflicting arms control goals
we agreed that we must deal with the soviet union from a position of realism, strength and alliance unity,'' reagan said in an east room farewell to the chancellor
the red army's chief of staff said friday the superpower missile treaty will free ``tens of thousands'' of his soldiers from their present duties, and a general said it would save the country more than $80 million
marshal sergei f. akhromeyev, the military chief of staff, and maj. gen. vladimir i. medvedev were among top officials called to speak before a special panel of the supreme soviet parliament considering ratification of the pact
the treaty to ban superpower medium- and shorter-range nuclear missiles was signed by soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev and president reagan on dec. 8
some people with dangerously weakened blood vessels in the head may benefit from a new therapy that permanently inserts balloons in the arteries that supply the brain with blood, researchers said friday
the technique appears a highly effective way of preventing strokes in people with bulging arteries at the base of the brain, the researchers said
doctors have experimented with the technique for several years, but they say the latest refinements have overcome earlier drawbacks and should make it a safe way to stop lethal attacks in some people
eli wallach has deemed barbra streisand nuts
not exactly. but as dr. herbert a. morrison in the movie, ``nuts,'' wallach portrays a psychiatrist who is truly convinced that claudia draper, a former call girl accused of murder, is insane and therefore must be locked away. streisand, as draper, believes otherwise
as a heavy i am not well liked in the movie,'' wallach said. ``but i approached the character with the conviction that he is a professional and he made this diagnosis based on years of experience. the more this girl rants and raves, the more i am convinced of my diagnosis.''
the consummate professional, wallach has brought to the screen more than 40 years of acting experience
you know, originally i prepared for a teaching career, but due to several circumstances i missed the exam,'' he said. ``so i decided to do what i most wanted to do and that was to act.''
he began his career with a scholarship to the neighborhood playhouse in new york and made his first appearance in the equity library production of tennessee williams' ``this property is condemned.''
this became an important turning point in wallach's life, for the only other performer in the show happened to be the actress, anne jackson, who later became his wife
wallach made his broadway debut in 1945 in ``skydrift'' a short-lived production. but soon thereafter, he was cast in the broadway production of ``mister roberts,'' which starred henry fonda and ran for two years
he then went on to receive a tony award for tennesse williams' ``the rose tattoo.''
it's a shame that shows have become so expensive here in new york, because we would have less problems if everybody were able to go to the theater _ rich, poor, black, white, minorities _ everbody,'' he said
theater is not a luxury but a necessity, for theater helps people understand the human condition.''
this belief in the power of theater to reach out to people has led wallach through many plays in his long career, including ``camino real,'' ``henry viii,'' ``antony and cleopatra,'' ``waltz of the toreadors,'' ``luv'' and ``the teahouse of the august moon.''
wallach's movie career began with elia kazan's debut as a director in ``baby doll'' in 1956, for which he won britain's highest film acting honor
i used to sneer at the screen,'' wallach said, ``then i realized how hard it is
a movie has many layers _ the director wheels the baton and i play the instrument. although it's a lot of hard work, i have fun and that's important
let me tell you this,'' he continued. ``the most important things in life are the right partner and your work. if you find a lifelong partner and you love your work, you are a most fortunate person.''
the 72-year-old wallach has indeed been fortunate. he and jackson have raised two daughters and a son. he has also appeared in aproximately 50 motion pictures since ``baby doll.'' he is most recognized for his role in the spaghetti western, ``the good, the bad and the ugly.''
people all over the world still come up to me on the streets and mention that movie with clint eastwood,'' he said
his other films include ``the magnificent seven,'' ``the misfits,'' ``how the west was won,'' ``cinderella liberty,'' ``the deep'' and ``tough guys.''
his most recent tv appearances include ``the executioner's song'' and an hbo movie, ``the impossible spy.''
even though he's busy with films and television _ he's also the sponsor for toyota trucks _ he still manages to keep one foot in the theater
i am like a farmer who rotates his crops, i always allocate a certain period of my time to go back to my roots _ the theater.''
she soared west across the atlantic on a celebrated dare 52 years ago, and then fell into obscurity
but decades after flyer beryl markham was forgotten, hollywood is showing a renewed interest in the heroine. several movies of her wildly adventurous life are underway or planned, including a four-hour cbs-tv special starring stefanie powers, and at least two feature-length films
in 1986, public television presented the film, ``world without walls: beryl markham's african memoir,'' shortly after her death at the age of 83. the movie reconstructed her life from old film footage and interviews with her gossipy contemporaries in kenya, where she once hunted barefoot with african friends
she represented some kind of magical-like past, something that a woman did but that can't ever be done again because the world in which that took place is gone,'' said george gutekunst, who rediscovered markham's memoirs, ``west with the night,'' and helped get them republished in 1983
the book chronicled her kenyan childhood and historic flight. praised by ernest hemingway as ``bloody wonderful,'' it became a best seller in both britain and the united states when it was republished. ``she's caught the imagination of much of this country and the world since then,'' gutekunst said
gutekunst met markham in kenya before her death. with his partner, albert del masso, he later secured movie rights to the book
in some cities, such as san francisco, fascination with markham approaches cult status, according to berniece green, a new york publicist for cbs, which in january began filming in africa on ``beryl markham: shadow on the sun.''
markham was born in melton mowbray, leicestershire, in england, and was brought to kenya at age 4 by her divorced father, retired british army capt. charles b. clutterbuck, who purchased a farm. she learned to fly and became a bush pilot

by 1936, several planes had successfully crossed the atlantic westward from europe. but all the aircraft had at least two people aboard. markham, in a single-engine percival gull monoplane, departed britain's abingdon royal air force aerodrome on sept. 4, 1936. low fuel forced her to land in a bog in nova scotia. she later received a ticker tape parade in new york, her original goal
she had less than four years of formal education but said her father made her read widely. later, she was given a crash course in literature and music by an oxford-educated aristocrat and professional hunter, denys finch-hatton, the lover of the danish writer karen blixen, whose pen name was isak dinesen. the academy award-winning movie, ``out of africa,'' was based on blixen's life. markham was apparently finch-hatton's last love
markham's poetic account of her childhood and famed flight was largely ignored when first published in 1942. but following its re-release and then her death, the book's sales soared. it has been on the new york times best-sellers list since november 1986, according to north point press
in 1936, markham became the first person to fly solo east-to-west across the atlantic, accepting a challenge from england's lord john carberry. she had grown up in kenya with masai children, become a winning horse trainer and also one of the continent's premier ``bush pilots.''
kenya in the 1920s and '30s was a haven for titled europeans, and markham _ who spent much of her youth hunting wild boar and fending off lions _ lived with them. she took up thoroughbred training to support herself at 17 when her bankrupt father immigrated to peru
cbs' story, based on english journalist james fox's book, ``white mischief,'' will portray markham's three failed marriages, affairs with flyers finch-hatton and tom campbell black and her years in santa barbara, where she taught flying for paramount pictures
actress-producer diane baker of artemis productions, which optioned the movie rights to markham's book from gutekunst and masso, said her company plans to begin filming ``west with the night'' in kenya in june
nelson films plans to film ``the lives of beryl markham'' this fall. it is based on a book by errol trzbinsky to be published next year, according to producer anthony rufus-isaacs, who knew markham in africa
no stars have been named for either film project
lindsay wagner has optioned mary lovell's 1986 biography of markham, ``straight on till morning,'' for a possible leading role for the actress, according to st. martin's press
markham's ``amazing freedom'' in the african outback is what captivates people, said lovell in a telephone interview from her home in england
an accountant who quit her job to travel to kenya to meet markham, lovell found the flyer in 1985 living in a tiny house outside nairobi at a track where she had trained some of kenya's greatest race champions
here was a woman who i found had lived the way we all would have if we had the courage,'' she said
i'm the no. 1 attraction in every supermarket parkin' lot
i'm the king of kansas city, no thanks, omaha, thanks a lot.''
_ roger miller
willard scott is a national version of roger miller's ``kansas city star,'' the quintessential local celebrity who turns down a better deal in a bigger city because, among other things, ``i got credit down at the grocery story and my barber tells me jokes.''
i think about that a thousand times a day,'' scott says with customary exaggeration when reminded of the song. he loves everyone. every town is his favorite. every organization the greatest. his secret is that it's all true
i guard against being cynical or smart, i just don't like that whole approach to life,'' he says, sitting in his small nbc office, crammed full of memorabilia and gifts
in 1980, scott moved to nbc in new york from the relative small-towniness of the local affiliate in washington, d.c., where he had been bozo the clown on a kiddie show, and later the local weatherman. in the big city, a lot of people thought he was a phony, he said
in the beginning, i really ran into that, especially around here. but that didn't last but about six months to a year. i have a pretty good sense of what's going on.''
he knocks on wood and adds, ``as soon as you say that you get the slip. but in the first three months, the mail was tremendous. eight hundred letters a day, about half of 'em negative. but that didn't bother me. worse than gettin' bad mail is no mail.''
scott, who has made several appearances as neighbor mr. poole in the hit nbc sitcom ``valerie's family'' this season, is negotiating a new contract with ``today.'' executive producer marty ryan says scott is close to signing a new, long-term deal
scott, who likes to tell how he once turned down an offer of mcdonald's stock now worth $7 million and passed up 3,000 acres of prime blue ridge mountain land worth $25 million, said he nevertheless will stay with ``today'' rather than take a new gamble _ on his own sitcom
the producers of ``valerie's family,'' tom miller and bob boyett, liked him as recurring character peter poole so much they are considering a spinoff
miller calls a spinoff of the pooles a ``definite possibility.''
meanwhile, he said, ``we think he's a terrific addition to `valerie's family.' he's a very hard person not to like. he has no airs. he really is one of the most genuine and open and kind men that i've ever met in this business.''
scott has appeared on the sitcom three times this season, and one more appearance is in the works
one obstacle to a sitcom is scott's insistence that he stay in the east. he goes home to virginia every weekend, usually doing his ``today'' weather segments from washington, d.c., on friday and monday
what i'm saying is if i have a choice of doing a sitcom or staying on the `today' show, i'd rather stay on the `today' show,'' scott said
i'm 53. i mean, i get one cell or one heart muscle thump the wrong way, and i'd be deader than hell, and i don't want to do that and be out there (in california), i want to be home.''
while it's an ``an effort for me to act,'' he says, the ``today'' show routine is ``like water off a duck's back.''
and besides,'' he says, ``it's all over at 9 o'clock. i can hop on the plane and get out of there, go home. that's what i want. i want time. but i don't want to give up the money, i don't want to give up the ego, i don't want to give up the notoriety, the publicity, you know, that's a very seductive force.''
elsewhere in television:
she writes `murder' on cable _ usa network has landed another network series bound for syndication, cbs' ``murder, she wrote,'' starring angela lansbury. the reruns will begin a run on the cable network this fall. the show is still cbs' highest-rated prime-time show. usa previously got a pre-syndication deal on nbc's ``miami vice.'' ..
yo, pauli, did you hear that? _ nbc's ``crime story'' will explain how villain ray luca and hapless sidekick pauli taglia managed to escape a nuclear explosion that concluded last season. in plugging the march 1 episode, ``pauli taglia's dream,'' nbc says the pair's escape from the blast ``was almost equal to their dealings afterwards with government agents who had other experiments in mind.''
of all the financial and statistical delusions practiced regularly in washington, none has the impact of the annual budget ``cuts'' that lead to greater spending
in truth, federal spending hasn't been cut during any year of the 1980s, but that doesn't mean there haven't been spending ``cuts.'' there have been, on a regular basis, and they have been proclaimed to the skies
how, then, can it be that the federal government spent $591 billion in 1980 and $1.06 trillion in 1988, an average of $59 billion additional spending a year, and amounting to a total increase in this decade of more than 79 percent?
answer: because ``cut'' means something in washington that it means nowhere else. it has the same sound and appearance as the version used throughout the rest of the nation, but its practical meaning is opposite to what you think
daniel j. mitchell of the citizens for a sound economy, a washington-based think tank, tackled the problem in pursuit of the foundation's public interest, which is to penetrate economic obfuscation and educate the citizenry
cut'' means increase, he explains
the term, he states, has become twisted because of its association with what is called the current services budget. this budgeting technique assumes spending will rise in the following year
therefore, proposed spending levels for one year are compared not to what was spent in that year, or in previous years. instead, they are compared to what was foreseen in earlier projections of spending for that year
thus, says mitchell, the foundation's director of tax and budget policy, a 4 percent increase can become a 6 percent cut. he explains:
if the current services budget projects that a program's budget for the next year could have risen by 10 percent, and proposals call for a 4 percent increase, that 4 percent increase is considered a 6 percent cut
clearly, this sort of mathematics has limited application. you could not get away with it at the bank. you couldn't manipulate your household budget that way unless you were seeking to misinform your spouse, or go bankrupt
but what it considered foolhardy and possible a crime on a small scale, seems to be tolerated on a larger one. says mitchell: ``every time a budget is passed that does not spend as much as the current services budget estimates, it is reported as a spending cut _ leading to the popular perception that the budget has been cut.''
the misinforming of the public doesn't originate with the concept of the current services budget. it is a useful tool. it is the misuse of that useful tool that brings the confusion
a current services budget guides policymakers by telling them what spending increases would be required to keep a program current with inflation, changes in population makeup and changes in the law
however, says mitchell, ``by making it a yardstick against which all budget proposals are judged, the process has misled the public into believing spending has been cut.''
why does the usage persist?
the answer is strangely clear for things involving the budget: it serves the purpose
as federal budget proposals go, the agriculture department comes off reasonably well in president reagan's recommendations to congress
total spending for the 1989 fiscal year would be cut only 5 percent to around $48.3 billion. and virtually all of the sensitive crop programs, with the exception of sugar, would suffer reductions that already have been approved by congress
sugar is a different thing entirely. the administration is dead set against the current program, claiming the supports are to high and the quotas on imports of foreign sugar too restrictive
there are other smackeroos in the reagan budget, to be sure. the white house still wants the rural electrification administration to turn most of its business over to private lenders, and the farmers home administration would see its housing program dismantled
still, compared with some other years when reagan has urged cutting school lunch subsidies to rich kids and charging user fees for meat and poultry inspection, the 1989 edition may be pretty tame
but when it comes to the old agricultural conservation program, or acp, some things don't seem to change at all. once again reagan has plotted the end of one of the true survivalists of federal farm programs
the acp was started in the 1930s to help farmers pay the cost of carrying out approved conservation practices on their land. through republican and democratic administrations alike, white house budget proposals for many years have recommended cutting or ending the program, which has been running at around $200 million a year
each time, however, congress has insisted that acp be kept, and funded at approximately the same level
a year ago, in his budget for 1988, reagan asked congress to rescind most of the acp money and also to hold bank funds for a number of other conservation programs, none so big as acp but still notable as having their own constituencies
the programs are operated by two usda agencies, the agricultural stabilization and conservation service, and the soil conservation service
as in the past, congress didn't go along with last year's budget proposal, so reagan is trying again. but you have to look at more than the bottom line in the usda's budget book
soil and water conservation programs are grouped together into a single category. for 1989, according to the reagan proposal, the programs would be operated at a level of about $2.76 billion, an increase from an estimated 1988 program level of $2.74 billion
the slight increase, however, reflects the impact of the giant conservation reserve program (crp), which was included in the 1985 farm law as a plan to take up to 45 million acres of marginal, highly erodible cropland from production for periods of 10 years
about 23 million acres have been signed up, and department officials are confident that further signups will produce the objective
in return for contracting to take land out of crops, farmers get usda assistance for half of the costs of converting the acreage to grass and trees. thereafter, they get annual rental payments averaging around $50 per acre a year
according to department budget analysts, the crp operated at about $677 million in 1987, will grow to more than $1.86 billion this year and to $2.16 billion in 1989. some have argued that the growth of crp, which requires farmers to treat land and water in a kindly way, has made some of the old-line programs such as acp obsolete
budget analysts point out, however, that serious moves were afoot to kill acp long before congress passed the 1985 farm law authorizing long-term conservation contracts
other programs fated to end if congress goes along, include the water bank program, emergency conservation program, forestry incentives program, and the colorado river salinity control program
however, there are a couple of survivors. the water resource management program operated by the soil conservation service for the development of small watersheds has been recommended at $116 million in 1989. although that is down from $187 million estimated this year, officials noted that reagan in the past has wanted to eliminate the program entirely
the same goes for resource conservation and development, also handled by scs. it would be continued at $25 million next year under the budget proposal
overall, the proposed reduction in scs conservation programs and in fmha's rural housing would mean fewer people working for those agencies. full-time employees in scs would be reduced to about 12,395 next year from 14,177 in 1988. the fmha would need 11,700 employees, compared with 12,675 this year
just a little more than a year after the dow jones industrial average first reached 2,000, the stock market has adopted that level as a regular hangout
since the crash in october that sent the average tumbling into the low 1700s, the market has rallied back to around 2,000 four separate times. on each of those occasions, the advance has bogged down at that point
now, wall streeters hope, it may be ready to clear that obstacle
many stock market analysts say it is simplistic or even silly to talk about round-number levels in the dow as measures of any significance for the market outlook
when investing institutions measure their performance against the market as a whole, these analysts point out, they usually don't use the dow, but rather the broader standard &amp; poor's 500-stock composite index
nevertheless, dow 2,000 appears to provide a good reference point for the current state of the market
it served as one of the landmarks of the great 1982-87 bull market when the average first surpassed it on jan. 8 of last year
and one emphatic message of the crash on oct. 19 seemed to be that the dow in the 2000s was too high
now that a semblance of stability has returned to the marketplace, a new symbolic appraisal has been made: improvement in the trade deficit and a decline in interest rates have warranted a return to the threshold of 2,000 at least
but to buy stocks much above that level is still considered a risky proposition
when the market rallies almost to 2,000 one contingent believes _ loudly _that it is already running into trouble,'' observed justin mamis in a current market commentary for the investment firm of cowen &amp; co
another group quickly gets labeled on tv as `emergent bulls' and insists they've never given up faith in new dow highs.''
in the past week the industrial average closed above 2,000 on tuesday and wednesday after the washington's birthday holiday, slipped back briefly, and then jumped ahead again. it closed friday at 2,014.59, up 31.33 from the week before
the new york stock exchange composite index rose 2.10 to 146.96; the american stock exchange market value index 3.16 to 280.16, and the nasdaq composite index for the over-the-counter market 3.85 to 357.12
volume on the big board averaged 160.98 million shares a day, against 179.43 million the week before
of course, there are many more elaborate ways to measure the level of the market than simple gauges of stock prices
by some of those yardsticks, argues suresh bhirud at oppenheimer &amp; co., stocks ``appear attractive relative to both bonds and their own historical average valuation level.''
for instance, bhirud figures that the s&amp;p 500 now stands at 12 times projected earnings for this year _ a price-earnings multiple he calls attractive in a period of low inflation
if you adjust the s&amp;p 500 for inflation, he adds, it is 30 percent below where it was in 1968. and the market value of stocks is now 58 percent of the nation's gross national product, compared with 118 percent at the 1968 peak
there's no magic in comparing the current inflation-adjusted price levels with 1968,'' he says. ``it's just a way of demonstrating that the price appreciation in the stock market for the last 20 years has probably lagged price appreciation in other aspects of the economy.''
when president reagan compared nicaraguan leader daniel ortega to ``that fellow in the isuzu commercial'' in a recent speech, he gave the car importer's admakers an idea
they made a new isuzu commercial that includes the president's remarks and some film of ortega delivering a speech in a foreign language as captions purport to translate what he is saying into a plea for a deal on a sporty car
the approach is similar to that the importer has taken for the past two years, in which it has corrected with captions the outrageous claims that its smarmy spokesman, the fictional joe isuzu, makes about isuzu cars and trucks
but all three major television networks have rejected the latest ad, isuzu's admakers said. one network executive said the ad was a publicity stunt
i think they were well aware that it would be rejected and saw an opportunity for free publicity,'' said harvey dzodin, vice president of commercial clearance at the abc television network
the ad begins with a tape from a feb. 2 speech by president reagan in which he encourages congressional support for the nicaraguan rebels
the president said that when he hears the nicaraguan leaders making promises, he is reminded of the isuzu commercials and thinks ``there should be subtitles under them telling the real story.''
the commercial says ortega made a speech about isuzu the next day
it shows ortega delivering an address while subtitles provide a fictitious translation: ``hey, joe isuzu. could you cut me a deal on an impulse turbo? i hear the impulse is faster than a speeding bullet. i could use that in a car.''
the ad ends with the now-familiar voice of joe isuzu, saying ``you have my word on it.''
jerry della femina, head of isuzu's ad agency, della femina travisano &amp; partners, said as soon as he heard of reagan's remarks, he knew ``we had a terrific commercial.''
but the tv networks didn't see it that way. della femina said while they usually take a week or so to review an ad, abc and nbc rejected the new isuzu spot in ``seven or eight minutes'' while cbs took a full day
dom giofre, a spokesman for the nbc television network, said nbc found the ad ``in poor taste.'' cbs and abc policies prohibit airing ads featuring unauthorized use of the president, network officials said
della femina conceded no effort was made to get permission from either reagan or ortega for use in the ad. he said his client still wants to get the ad on the air on either independent stations or cable networks
he said the ad displays ``no lack of respect for the office of the president'' and argued that ortega ``has been treated a lot worse'' by others
no offense intended, della femina said. you have his word on it
oil prices are being pressured lower, as traders test the market to see where the next ranges will be
at the new york mercantile exchange thursday, contracts for march delivery of west texas intermediate, the benchmark u.s. crude oil, closed at $16.45 per 41-gallon barrel, down 16 cents from wednesday
among refined products, wholesale contracts for unleaded gasoline closed at 45.97 cents a gallon, down 0.69 cent, while wholesale heating oil was down half a penny at 45.08 cents a gallon
stephen j. mckiernan, president of the mckiernan &amp; co. commodity brokerage firm, said sellers grew active after the crude contract broke below $16.60, its most recent support level
many traders were selling the market short, expecting prices to head lower, he said, adding that some technicians were expecting the contract to trade in a range between $16.20 and $16.50 a barrel
in a short sale, a trader sells borrowed contracts in hopes of replacing them later with others bought at a cheaper price
at the same time, he said, ``there's the same underlying bearishness we've had for months,'' mainly because of abundant supplies
american standard inc. is attempting to woo shareholders away from a hostile $2.03 billion bid by black &amp; decker corp. with a rival recapitalization plan offering a $1.9 billion payout plus a stake in the recapitalized company
american standard's board of directors approved the proposal on thursday, just over a week after it rejected black &amp; decker's $65-a-share hostile tender offer
american standard said its plan it would pay $59 in cash plus high-yielding debt securities it valued at $5 for each of the company's 31.1 million outstanding shares
shareholders also would receive one common share of the recapitalized company for each of the common shares they held currently, although the total number of shares in the recapitalized company would be greater
american standard stock rose 50 cents to close at $67.50 a share and black &amp; decker dipped 12{ cents to $18.87{ on the new york stock exchange
recapitalizations, in which a company realigns its levels of debt and equity, have become a frequently used takeover defense because the company often takes on a big debt load that makes it a less attractive target
american standard, for example, would see its long-term debt jump to about $2.3 billion from roughly $412 million. the company planned to pay off the debt with its cash flow rather than by selling assets, according to sources familiar with the plan
american standard did not estimate the impact of the plan on the company's earnings. last year, it earned $127.1 million on sales of $3.4 billion. william boyd, american standard's chairman and chief executive, said earlier this month estimated profits would rise by about 20 percent this year, excluding the impact of a takeover
a black &amp; decker spokeswoman at the company's towson, md., headquarters did not return a telephone call seeking comment thursday
the recapitalization not only gives the stockholders significantly higher value than the $65 being offered in black &amp; decker's tender, but also enables them to retain a substantial ongoing equity interest in a viable american standard,'' boyd said in a statement
in addition to giving public shareholders new stock in the recapitalized company, american standard also would convert the 1.23 million of its shares held by an employee savings and stock ownership plan into shares of the recapitalized company at a ratio to be determined later
american standard said that using the ratio of 10.15-to-one as an example, the number of its outstanding common shares plus equivalents such as stock options would more than double, to 65.4 million from 32.2 million
the plan must be approved by shareholders and is subject to sufficient financing being arranged. a special shareholders meeting is planned for april to consider the proposal, the company said
american standard said it planned to finance the recapitalization with $1.59 billion in bank borrowing and the sale of $225 million in senior subordinated debentures
separately, a federal judge in delaware deferred a decision on black &amp; decker's constitutionality challenge to delaware's new takeover law
attorneys said u.s. district court judge joseph longobardi planned to rule in about a week on the black &amp; decker lawsuit against the state and american standard, which is incorporated in delaware
the law severely limits a hostile buyer's ability to sell a target company's assets to finance a takeover. black &amp; decker has indicated it planned several major divestitures of american standard property to help finance its buyout if successful
after american standard last week rejected its $65-a-share offer, black &amp; decker said it would seek shareholder approval to win control of the company's board of directors
black &amp; decker, a maker of appliances and power tools, has said it had commitments for $750 million in financing for its offer and its banker was confident it could raise another $1.25 billion in bank loans
american standard manufactures plumbing and air conditioning equipment, automotive brakes and mass-transit control devices
eaton corp. has paid $6 million to settle government claims that one of the company's divisions overcharged and issued premature bills on defense contracts, the company announced
the government had alleged that eaton issued $2.7 million in premature bills and about $1 million in improper charges. the government had been seeking triple damages and penalties totaling more than $26 million
the settlement, which includes a $500,000 penalty for entertainment furnished by eaton's airborne instruments laboratories division and $700,000 in penalties for its billing practices, was announced jointly in statements wednesday by eaton chairman james stover and andrew maloney, the u.s. attorney for the eastern district of new york
ail, in deer park, n.y., was accused of making false statements in its monthly billings to the air force during work on the defensive avionics system for the b-1b bomber
eaton said the ail division had government contracts of $3 billion during the period covered by the settlement
a settlement of these claims is a prerequisite to our moving ahead with plans to exit the defense electronics industry,'' stover said. ``on that basis, we think the settlement is in the best interest of eaton shareholders.''
cleveland-based eaton announced last october its intention to sell its defense electronics business
as part of the settlement, eaton agreed to absorb its own legal fees and expenses, maloney said
the defense contractors must realize that they have to abide by the rules, and failure to do so will result in substantial penalties and losses to the companies involved,'' the prosecutor said
mickey mouse turns 60 this year, and donald, goofy and the rest of the disney gang aren't far behind
the faces of the popular cartoon characters created by walt disney are among the best known in the world, and one questioner at thursday's shareholders meeting wondered if walt disney co. executives ever worry about over-saturating the market with those familiar images
yes, we worry about it all the time,'' said michael d. eisner, chairman and chief executive officer of the broad-based entertainment company that evolved from disney's cartoons. ``i think what we've found is that as long as what you do is excellent, as long as every single move you make in every part of the company is based on a goal of complete excellence and quality, you only enhance the image
if you do things just to do them and they're cheap or inferior, you are going to hurt something else.''
about 300 people attended the disney shareholders meeting, the first held away from the company's theme parks, walt disney world in florida and disneyland in california. the company decided to ``come home'' to the place where walt disney started out
born in chicago, disney grew up in marceline, mo., about 80 miles northeast of kansas city. his family later moved to kansas city, where he attended art school and did his first commercial cartooning. he headed for hollywood 65 years ago with $40 in his pocket
the shareholders heard glowing accounts of the company's results, bolstered by a remarkable turnaround at movie box offices, and prospects for future growth, headlined by plans for a european disneyland
during the 1987 fiscal year ending sept. 30, revenues increased 33 percent to $2.8 billion and net income was up 80 percent to $444.7 milllion, or $3.23 a share
and the quarter ending jan. 31 was the best first quarter in the company's history, with revenues of $734.6 million and net operating income of $100.4 million
eisner and frank g. wells, president and chief operating officer, highlighted plans for upcoming film ventures. but their most enthusiastic comments were about the prospects for euro disneyland, scheduled to open in 1992 near paris. they said they have no doubt they will be as successful in europe as they have been with their japanese disneyland near tokyo, five years old in april, which will soon welcome its 50 millionth visitor
the european disneyland site, about 18 miles east of paris, is near one of the major north-south highway routes, wells said, and the french government will extend rail transportation to the gate of the newest magic kingdom
everything seems to be set to make it one of the most successful theme park ventures ever, even rivaling walt disney world,'' said eisner. ``we believe that euro disneyland will be the single most important undertaking by the company in the decade of the 1990s.''
shareholders applauded promotional film clips from ``three men and a baby,'' the comedy starring tom selleck which has brought in $132 million at the box office since its release last year, and the more recent robin williams hit, ``good morning vietnam,'' which has fetched $63 million
the animated classic ``snow white'' brought in a record $46 million in its re-release last year, bringing its total over 50 years to more than $350 million. the company is starting to put more emphasis on the animated films which first made its reputation, including a modern version of the dickens classic ``oliver twist,'' set in new york city instead of london
eisner said the company will soon meet its goal of releasing one animated film a year, ``a dream even walt would have felt ambitious.''
the disney executives cited strong expectations for the just-released ``shoot to kill,'' bringing sidney poitier back to the screen after a 10-year absence, which brought in $5.8 million and ranked no. 2 in its first weekend
among films coming out later this year will be ``who framed roger rabbit,'' an animated feature in which steven spielberg is co-producer, ``d.o.a.'' a thriller starring dennis quaid, ``great big business,'' a comedy with bette midler and lily tomlin, ``cocktail'' with tom cruise, ``fugitive'' with nick nolte and martin short, and ``the good mother'' with diane keaton
eisner was re-elected to the board of directors, along with stanley p. gold, president of shamrock holdings inc., irwin russell, an attorney, and raymond l. watson, former chairman of the company and now chairman of the board's executive committee
shareholders also approved a stock incentive plan for employees and retained price waterhouse as the company's accounting firm for the 50th year
rich's downtown department store once was more than the flagship of a chain, it was a symbol of atlanta, where southeastern shoppers came to browse and buy _ and return _ anything they wanted from the legendary family-operated institution
today's version of the store retains the offices and selling space, but the glitz has moved to the malls and the 121-year-old chain is independent no more, purchased 12 years ago by federated department stores inc. of cincinnati. federated is itself the object of an ongoing $5.5 billion-plus takeover attempt by campeau corp. of toronto
rich's was founded in 1867 by morris rich, a hungarian immigrant who borrowed $500 from his brother to start a small dry goods store and had $5,000 in first-year sales
his grandson _ born richard rosenheim, but who changed his name at age 19 to richard rich _ took over in the late 1940s and guided the store until his death in 1975
the next year, the chain was sold to federated in a stock swap, prompting moans from atlanta residents and resulting in full-page newpaper ads from the company promising that rich's would never change
that promise has been broken, says michael rich, great-grandson of the founder and the last family member to work for the chain
i think rich's was a community leader in every aspect and now it's a place to buy things,'' rich said in a telephone interview from his home in vail, colorado. rich was vice president for public relations, personnel and non-sales services when he left in 1983
in the years since the deal with federated, rich's has expanded its mall operations, and recently completed a renovation of the downtown store
however, in that renovation, four floors in one part of the two-building complex were given over to leased office space, significantly reducing selling space
and what was once unthinkable has happened: arch-rival macy's of new york is challenging rich's hold on the atlanta market
when federated acquired rich's in 1976, the chain had 12 department stores and 10 richway discount stores, all but four in the atlanta area
now, there are 20 rich's stores, 14 in the atlanta area, three in alabama, two in south carolina and one in augusta, ga. the richway stores have been combined with federated's gold circle discount stores into a separate division
the rich's division had $690.6 million in sales in 1986, more than 6.5 percent of total federated sales. federated reported net income of $287.6 million on sales of $10.5 billion for the 12 months ended jan. 31, 1987
they're one of federated's better operations,'' said monroe greenstein, a retail analyst for bear, stearns &amp; co. inc. in new york. he estimated 1987 sales at more than $700 million
although rich's has a low ratio of sales per square foot at $140, he said, its traditional dominance of the atlanta market makes it an attractive property
federated has ``done a lot to improve and a lot to take away from what it was,'' michael rich said. ``they've changed the concept of merchandising. they do what they do well. ... they run mediocre department stores everywhere they are
they appeal to the middle economic strata and we tried to be something to everyone,'' he said
rich said he never understood why federated bought rich's and then, to his way of thinking, changed its character. if it was worth buying, he reasoned, it must have been because it was successful
federated is resisting the campeau offer, and the ohio legislature has passed a law giving the state authority to assess the economic impact of the potential takeover
legislators are worried that campeau would break up the company and cost ohioans their jobs
but in fighting the takeover, federated has said it might be forced to sell one or more assets, including the discount operation. the company's latest move involved a financial restructuring that could include the sale of most assets other than the department stores
rich, although he admitted he ``probably'' would like to return to the department store business, said he had had no serious discussions about reacquiring the family's stores
in addition to rich's, federated's holdings include the new york-based bloomingdale's and abraham and straus, filene's of boston, burdines of miami, bullock's and bullocks wilshire in los angeles, i. magnin in san francisco and lazarus in ohio. sted normal as sent, sub 5th graf: the cost ... thursday night. a version moving on general news wires.</note>
workers voted by a more than a 2-1 margin to accept a new contract and end a strike at ford's 22 british plants, but new strife in the auto industry loomed when wage negotiations broke down at land rover today
ford motor co.'s hourly workers, on strike since feb. 8, decided by 16,060 votes to 6,759 in a union ballot thursday to accept a new two-year contract. ford said it expects them back at work on monday
the vote in the 70 percent turnout ended britain's first major industrial strike in three years, but the settlement is a significant union victory, the first in seven years
prime minister margaret thatcher's government is worried that, because ford made concessions, there could be new industrial unrest and an inflationary explosion in wage demands
the cost of excessive pay settlements can only be damaging to future prospects and jobs,'' employment secretary norman fowler warned thursday night
he said excessive pay settlements translated into an average increase in earnings among all british workers of 8.5 percent over the last 12 months
britain's annual rate of inflation of 3.3 percent, the lowest since october 1986, is largely the result of the conservative government's tight money policies
the government has argued that, as a result of low inflation, many british workers have no right to expect annual pay hikes
in its settlement, ford backed down on a demand for a three-year contract and also agreed to a larger wage increase _ at least 14 percent over the life of the contract. previously, it had offered an increase of 7 percent in the first year and 2.5 percent above the rate of inflation over the next two years
an average ford worker now earns $327 a week
ford won some changes in work practices to boost productivity, but they must be agreed to at plant level, not imposed by management
more than 9,700 workers were laid off because of the strike, which disrupted production at ford's belgian plant at genk and threatened output at ford factories in spain and west germany, all of which rely on parts made in britain
ford said the strike cost it $350 million, at showroom prices, in lost production
the walkout _ ford's first in britain for nearly a decade _ a recent strike by english channel ferry crews, and unrest in the state-run national health service and in coal mines has prompted concern about a new wave of industrial problems
the british domestic news agency press association said a strike by 6,000 hourly workers at land rover seems certain next week following the breakdown of pay negotiations early today
land rover managing director tony gilroy said no further talks were planned
land rover said it had offered a two-year pay package which it said was worth an extra 14 percent and would give the average production worker $22 a week more than the ford workers settled for. union officials said it was not worth that much and that they want more
meanwhile, more than 4,000 hourly workers at vauxhall motors, british subsidiary of general motors corp., have voted to strike if they don't get a better pension deal from the company. no date for the walkout has been announced
widespread industrial strife erupted in britain in the so-called winter of discontent of 1978-79 but receded after mrs. thatcher rose to power in 1979, a steep rise in unemployment and laws by her government to curb unions
unemployment is now falling again and stands at 2.56 million, or 9.2 percent
allegis corp., parent company of united airlines, says it is negotiating to sell up to 35 percent of its covia-apollo automated reservations system to four european airlines for about $350 million
allegis spokesman matt gonring said thursday that talks were underway but no final agreement has been reached with british airways, klm royal dutch airlines, swiss air and alitalia
gonring said allegis also is negotiating with a third party, whom he identified only as ``one or more of the four'' european airlines, for acquisition of an additional 15 percent of covia
analysts said the 15 percent stake would be worth about $150 million
chicago-area based allegis would retain a controlling interest of 50 percent of covia, under the deal, gonring said
covia operates the apollo computer reservation system for airlines and other companies
allegis recently sold its westin and hilton international hotel chains and hertz corp. car rental subsidiary
rather than pay dividends to shareholders from the sales, allegis on wednesday began a $2.8 billion cash offer to buy about two-thirds, or up to 33.5 million, of its shares at $80 each
allegis plans to keep its airline operation and revert back to its old corporate name, united airlines
chrysler corp. chairman lee iacocca says he's considering a ``modest, short'' postponement of the sept. 30 shutdown of the company's auto assembly plant in kenosha, wis
iacocca told reporters after a two-hour meeting thursday with wisconsin gov. tommy thompson and rep. les aspin, d-wis.: ``we don't hold hopes too high, but they specifically asked if we could have a modest, short extension ... at the plant
we're going to look and see if we can seriously do that. it would help, a lot.''
meanwhile, iacocca said the company, working with aspin, who is chairman of the house armed services committee, would explore the possibility of bringing some of chrysler's growing defense business to the kenosha plant
participants in the meeting described it as productive, but testy and loud at times. they said they would meet again in about a month
it started out testy. in the middle of the conversation it got testy and about a half-an-hour before we finished it was very testy,'' said thompson, who is threatening to sue the company for breach of contract. he declined, however, to say what issues sparked the outbursts
wisconsin officials are angry because they appropriated $5 million to retrain workers at the aging plant after chrysler acquired it in a merger with american motors corp. they say company officials promised to keep it operating into 1992
iacocca, however, says company officials are guilty of nothing more than being ``cockeyed optimists'' in originally planning to keep the plant open for three to five years. car sales have not been sufficient to allow that, he said
thompson said he was holding back on filing a breach-of-contract suit being prepared by wisconsin's attorney general, but he warned: ``the filing of the lawsuit depends upon what happens in the negotiations.''
about 5,500 workers could lose their jobs at the 86-year-old factory, which is the nation's oldest auto plant. about 1,800 workers are eligible for pensions, leaving 3,700 facing unemployment in kenosha, an industrial city of about 75,000 on lake michigan
iacocca said chrysler may be able to keep the plant operating ``a couple months'' beyond the scheduled closing on sept. 30. but thompson said he hoped the extension would be longer than that
aspin said the group is looking into transferring some of the company's existing defense business to kenosha and at securing new business for it. he declined to offer specific details
chrysler had $268 million in pentagon business last year _ including electronics, small aircraft and some automotive sales _ and is looking to expand, according to warren nelson, an aspin aide
chrysler ought to give some thought to the fact that if they have an interest in expanding their defense business, closing a plant in wisconsin isn't the way to go about it,'' nelson said
he cautioned, however, ``there is no way chrysler is going to come up with 3,700 jobs no matter how much defense work they get.''
thompson said he and aspin also asked iacocca to negotiate with the united auto workers union concerning the disposition of money that workers had paid into a fund for improving the plant, and to participate in a program to improve economic development in southeast wisconsin
on tuesday, iacocca announced in milwaukee that the company would dedicate all profits from new chrysler cars sold in wisconsin to a fund to help laid-off workers pay their mortgages and rent. based on 1987 sales, the fund should amount to about $20 million, he said
the stock market was little changed today, continuing its recent stalemate around the 2,000 level in the dow jones industrial average
dow jones's average of 30 blue chips edged up .49 to 1,986.90 in the first half hour of trading
losers slightly outnumbered gainers in the overall tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 465 up, 507 down and 506 unchanged
volume on the big board came to 24.50 million shares as of 10 a.m. on wall street
several analysts at major investment firms have lately grown a bit more optimistic about the outlook for the market, citing signs of strength in the manufacturing sector of the economy
buying interest has been evident in some manufacturing stocks and many of the smaller ``secondary'' issues
but investors have remained leery of doing much broad-scale buying, with memories still fresh of the crash in october and talk persisting of a recession this year or in 1989
among actively traded blue chips, international business machines rose \ to 112}; ford motor gained { to 42}; chrysler dropped [ to 24}, and exxon was unchanged at 42
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks added .08 to 145.22. at the american stock exchange, the market value index was down .23 at 277.69
on thursday the dow jones industrial average dropped 14.58 to 1,986.41, after closing slightly above 2,000 in the week's first two sessions
declining issues outnumbered advances by about 7 to 6 on the nyse, with 678 up, 812 down and 470 unchanged. big board volume totaled 151.43 million shares, against 176.83 million in the previous session. that increase due to economic growth. a version moving on general news wires.</note>
if president reagan's proposed budget actually becomes america's budget for 1989, it will mean that the federal government will collect $1,687 in individual income taxes for every man, woman and child in the country
that's an increase of $65 from the budget he presented a year ago, due almost entirely to economic growth
the mathematics are straightforward. divide the $412.4 billion expected through individual income taxes during the year by 244.4 million people, the u.s. population as of jan. 1. last year, when the total population was 242.1 million, the assumption was that individual income taxes would bring in $392.8 billion
according to the budget proposal reagan sent to capitol hill on thursday, the federal government expects its total receipts in 1989 to be $964.7 billion. besides the personal income tax, the sum includes corporate income taxes of $117.7 billion and social security taxes of $354.6 billion. the rest will come from estate and gift taxes, customs duties, excise taxes and the like
using the same population formula for this year, the total receipts represent $3,947 for everyone from the tiniest to the oldest centenarian
the source of money flowing in to the government has changed greatly in the reagan years, the administration points out. the individual and corporate income tax share of total receipts in 1989 is expected to be 4.7 percentage points less than 1980 when three out of every five dollars came from income taxes
the administration tagged two displaced worker programs for extinction because they have not ``operated efficiently to help workers adjust.''
one provides unemployment benefit payments when unemployment insurance runs out. the administration feels those additional weeks of payments ``encourage workers to delay efforts to seek new opportunities in the hope that somehow their old jobs will reappear.'' in the current year, the program cost $48 million in federal money
the second program, costing $287 million in 1988, pays states for helping dislocated workers find new occupations that use their skills, get training in new skills or meet the cost of looking for jobs. that money, says the budget, should go into a new worker readjustment program
the administration also wants to drop a work incentive program that provided job services, training and public service employment to welfare recipients
although its aim is to help curb welfare dependency, it has not proved successful or cost-effective,'' the proposal said. the government budgeted $93 million for the program this year
reagan's budget proposal for 1988 asked congress to tack on $1 for every ticket for international travel to and from the united states to be used for a government program that encourages foreign travel to the united states
congress did not pass the legislation last year and the administration wants it brought up again
money for recreation is to be cut back under the proposal from $1.7 billion this year to $1.4 billion
to make that cut, the administration wants to reduce the amount spent for buying land from $232 million to $51 million. and it proposes a halt in buying some land for park and refuge purposes through 1993 _ except for wetlands acquired with revenue from sale of duck hunting stamps and the like
the budget also makes clear that pardons are on the increase. last year, there were only 23 pardons granted by the president. that number is estimated to increase to 50 this fiscal year and 50 again in the next. there was no explanation. the number of ``denials and no actions,'' _ 290 in 1987 _ is expected to increase slightly to 300 this year and next
coniston partners indicated today it would try to place four representatives on the gillette co. board of directors, escalating its strategy of pressuring the company into a merger or restructuring
a group led by the investment partnership, which holds a 6 percent stake in gillette, said it intended to solicit proxies from gillette shareholders to place candidates on the board of directors
in disclosing its gillette stake last thursday, coniston indicated it might seek representation on the board as part of a strategy to force an increase in gillette's share value
coniston would be unable to take control of gillette's board, because only a third of the seats are up for election in any year. but analysts say a coniston victory in the proxy fight could pressure the board to accede to the group's demands that it meet with potential merger partners
gillette stock rose 37{ cents to $39 a share in early trading today on the new york stock exchange
a spokesman at the boston-based consumer products company said gillette had not yet seen the securities and exchange commission filing outlining coniston's plan, and would not comment until it had
coniston also has said it was attempting to meet with potential acquirers of gillette, which long has been a takeover target. gillette has resisted takeover overtures, and reiterated a desire to remain independent last week after coniston made its disclosures
the moves by coniston, which successfully waged a similar strategy against allegis corp. last year, were seen widely as an attempt to force gillette's board to meet with potential merger partners such as revlon group inc., which has had several buyout offers rebuffed by gillette over the past 18 months
keith gollust, a principal in the partnership, said gillette's takeover defenses essentially gave its board of directors unilateral power to accept or reject any merger offers
our position is that shareholders, who really own the company, ought to have the right to make that decision,'' he said
gollust said the group had a telephone conversation with gillette chairman colman m. mockler jr. last week, but mockler did not change the company's prior statements that it wished to remain independent. pvs, the spending; minor editing thruout.</note>
the democratic chairman of the senate budget committee today praised parts of the $1.1 trillion fiscal 1989 budget president reagan submitted to congress, but warned that the proposal left tough deficit fighting for future administrations
sen. lawton chiles, d-fla., said that domestic spending increases proposed by the president in programs he has tried cutting in the past showed a white house shift toward congressional priorities
after eight years, it looks like you've finally seen the light on education, drug enforcement, health and the environment,'' chiles told white house budget director james c. miller iii, who was appearing before the senate budget panel
but chiles also warned that the national debt, now about $2.5 trillion, was rapidly growing and would have to be dealt with soon. he said efforts to control the deficit would have to go beyond the so-called budget summit agreement reached last november between reagan and congressional leaders
the job facing the next president will make last year look like a walk down primrose lane,'' chiles said
the house budget committee chairman, rep. william h. gray iii, speaking on ``cbs this morning,'' gave the spending plan ``a passing grade in that sense that it's closer to congressional priorities.''
the pennsylvania democrat cited the budget's slowed increases in defense spending and relaxed restraints on domestic spending as factors in its favor
the spending plan contains a deficit of $129.5 billion, less than the $136 billion target required by the gramm-rudman balanced budget law. the government would spend $1.094 trillion, while taking in $965 billion in receipts
if the budget were enacted intact, the government would have to collect $1,687 in individual income taxes for every person in the country _ $65 more would have been required under reagan's 1988 budget. such an increase, however, is attributable almost entirely to economic growth
appearing with gray, miller attributed the mild capitol hill reaction to the budget summit agreement
we had 20 days and 20 nights of real hard negotiating,'' he said. ``that's half the time noah spent on the ark.''
under that agreement, drawn in the aftermath of the october stock market crash, legislators and the administration set this budget's overall spending ceilings for military, domestic and foreign aid spending. in addition, reagan already has signed $14 billion in new 1989 taxes called for in the pact
with 1988 an election year, lawmakers are unlikely to insist on revisiting those painful subjects
it's like tying two cats by the tail and throwing them over the clothesline,'' sen. ernest hollings, d-s.c., a member of the senate budget committee, told reporters. ``there'll be a lot of small intramurals, but nothing really's going to happen.''
house minority leader bob michel, r-ill., added, ``although i have always felt that more could be cut from the budget through a (spending) freeze, i think our first responsibility is to affirm the summit agreement.''
others, however, predicted that although the budget's overall shape appears settled, skirmishes will be fought over how that money is divided up
it's a little like looking at a trojan horse,'' said chiles. ``it's an attractive horse, but you've got to look on the inside.''
reagan's budget contains proposals that pleased many lawmakers:
_spending to combat aids is increased by more than one-third to $1.3 billion
_education gets a $1.5 billion boost to $20.3 billion
_the national aeronautics and space administration's budget grows nearly 20 percent to $11 billion
_$2.5 billion is provided for a five-year fight against acid rain
but there are spending slashes in other programs that congress has rejected before and is likely to ignore again
the president would:
_end $600 million in federal subsidies for amtrak, the passenger railroad
_reduce mass transit aid from $3.3 billion to $1.4 billion
_eliminate the $200 million urban development action grants program
_sell government assets such as loan portfolios, the alaska power administration and the naval petroleum reserve
the battle will be fought on domestic differences,'' said gray
the budget is also the first submitted by reagan that does not allow pentagon spending to keep abreast of inflation. thus, it allows a military spending increase from $285.4 billion to $294 billion in fiscal 1989, and contains a reduction in the size of active-duty forces and drops the goal of a 600-ship navy
it does, however, grant servicemen and women 4.3 percent pay raise, well above the 2 percent granted other federal employees
the performance of the economy will be a weighty factor in determining how docile the 1989 budget wars will be
the budget's expected $129.5 billion deficit is based on projections by the white house office of management and budget. it projects healthy economic growth, along with continuing low interest rates, inflation and unemployment, which taken together mean lower government spending and higher government revenues
the congressional budget office, which studies the budget for congress, expects a weaker economic performance this year and has projected a $176 billion deficit
chiles said he expected congress to be able to adhere to the budget summit agreement unless ``the economy totally goes south.''
others, however, were critical of omb's projections, but conceded that lawmakers had little taste this year for tackling the massive deficit slashing that would be needed if cbo's forecast is accurate
this is the year of the big wink, the high art of blue smoke and mirrors,'' said rep. dan rostenkowski, d-ill., chairman of the tax-writing ways and means committee
if the lower deficit projection proves accurate, it could be the third consecutive drop in federal red ink. since reaching a record $221 billion in 1986, the deficit fell to $150 billion last year and is expected to fall to $146 billion this year
one possible bone of contention is the promise reagan has made to try to cancel spending for fiscal 1988 _ which began oct. 1 _ on several spending projects that lawmakers obtained for their home districts. the president is expected to raise the issue next week
the stock market declined slightly today, continuing its recent stalemate around the 2,000 level in the dow jones industrial average
dow jones's average of 30 blue chips slipped 1.33 to 1,985.08 by 11 a.m. on wall street
losers held a narrow edge on gainers in the overall tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 568 up, 590 down and 538 unchanged
volume on the big board came to 57.81 million shares at midmorning
several analysts at major investment firms have lately grown a bit more optimistic about the outlook for the market, citing signs of strength in the manufacturing sector of the economy
buying interest has been evident in some manufacturing stocks and many of the smaller ``secondary'' issues
but investors have remained leery of doing much broad-scale buying, with memories still fresh of the crash in october and talk persisting of a recession this year or in 1989
texaco climbed 1~ to 42|. financier t. boone pickens sought regulatory approval to buy a stake in the company, in which another prominent investor, carl icahn, already holds a 14.8 percent interest
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks added .01 to 145.15. at the american stock exchange, the market value index was up .26 at 278.18
grain and soybean futures opened mostly lower today on the chicago board of trade
most of the markets were down only slightly, but wheat was off as much as 5\ cents a bushel within a few minutes of the opening bell
demand for wheat typically weakens in late winter and early spring, and the futures market is anticipating a corresponding drop in prices, said walter spilka, an analyst in new york for smith barney, harris upham &amp; co
people are expecting the seasonal downturn in wheat,'' spilka said. ``they're looking for it and looking for it and when they see signs of weakening, you get a kind of bandwagon effect.''
wheat futures prices have mostly advanced for the past eight months. a down day today would mark the fourth straight day of steady or lower wheat prices
in early trading, wheat was 3} cents to 5\ cents lower with the contract for delivery in march at $3.16{ a bushel; corn was { cent lower to \ cent higher with march at $2.00{ a bushel; oats were 1 cent to 1\ cents lower with march at $1.90} a bushel; soybeans were 1 cent lower to 1 cent higher with march at $6.27{ a bushel
livestock and meat futures were mixed in early trading on the chicago mercantile exchange
live cattle were .07 cent lower to .30 cent higher with february at 71.20 cents a pound; feeder cattle were .30 cent lower to .20 cent higher with march at 82.35 cents a pound; hogs were .20 cent lower to .18 cent higher with february at 46.00 cents a pound
livestock and meat futures settled sharply lower on thursday
stock market investors face a quandary these days when they look for ways to profit from the revival of american manufacturing
practically no one disputes that ``smokestack america'' _ makers of steel, paper, chemicals, machinery and so forth _ has made an impressive comeback from its woes of the early to mid-1980s
the dollar's decline in currency markets has improved the competitive position of american manufacturers in world markets and given a needed boost to u.s. exports
furthermore, in the lean years many companies in this sector of the economy cut costs, increased productivity and ``restructured'' themselves to concentrate on operations with the most promising potential
while business was bad, there was little incentive to expand capacity. so now that business is better, manufacturers often find the facilities they have running at full tilt with order backlogs growing
this, in turn, creates a climate in which a company can enjoy what wall street analysts call ``pricing flexibility'' _ the opportunity to increase prices and profits
all this adds up to what any experienced investor would regard as a classic opportunity
while falling inflation and lower interest rates provided the dominant themes of the 1982-87 bull market, many analysts say the story today and for the future is manufacturing
there's one problem with that view, however. manufacturing is by long-standing tradition closely tied to the ups and downs of the business cycle. and if there is going to be a recession, as so many people are predicting right now, manufacturing would appear to be standing directly in its path
in january, notes rao chalasani, an analyst at prescott, ball &amp; turben inc., a cleveland-based investment firm, an index he maintains of 31 manufacturing stocks fell 5.8 percent while the dow jones industrial average gained about 1 percent
that action came amid other signs that recession fears were increasing in the securities markets _ among them a drop in interest rates and in the price of gold
nevertheless, putting aside the question of where the economical cycle stands, many analysts argue that there is a strong ``secular,'' or long-term, case for being bullish on american manufacturing
investment strategy decisions frequently key off of the business cycle,'' said robert salomon at salomon brothers in a commentary on the subject. ``occasionally, however, a secular trend takes hold
we believe that the revival of the u.s. manufacturing sector represents the beginning of a secular trend of a proportion similar to the disinflation trend experienced earlier in this decade.''
maintains chalasani on a similar note: ``the fundamental secular trend will remain for many years. numerous factors can temporarily check it, but it can be derailed only by cascading financial accidents.''
salomon says that a recession is likely next year, but that the forces in the economy emphasizing production and deemphasizing consumption could shape it into something considerably different from the typical down phase of the business cycle
if export growth partly offsets weakness in the domestic economy, as we believe is likely, areas of the economy that are typically weak during an economic contraction _ notably the cyclical sectors _ may show surprising strength,'' he reasons
at the same time, he says, ``some consumption-oriented industries _ traditionally perceived as defensive investments _ may not be the safe havens that they have been in other times
on balance, the positive secular trend evident in the manufacturing sector will, to some extent, offset (or at least dampen) the near-term cyclical weakness.''
the stock market edged upward today, continuing its recent stalemate around the 2,000 level in the dow jones industrial average
dow jones's average of 30 blue chips rose .82 to 1,987.23 by noontime on wall street
gainers held a narrow edge on losers in the overall tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 671 up, 598 down and 525 unchanged
several analysts at major investment firms have lately grown a bit more optimistic about the outlook for the market, citing signs of strength in the manufacturing sector of the economy
buying interest has been evident in some manufacturing stocks and many of the smaller ``secondary'' issues
but investors have remained leery of doing much broad-scale buying, with memories still fresh of the crash in october and talk persisting of a recession this year or in 1989
in a market that has been closely tuned to news developments, there were no major government reports or other economic data to give prices a push in either direction today
texaco climbed 2| to 43]. financier t. boone pickens sought regulatory approval to buy a stake in the company, in which another prominent investor, carl icahn, already holds a 14.8 percent interest
among other actively traded blue chips, ford motor rose 1 to 43\, while general electric dropped | to 42| and american telephone &amp; telegraph lost [ to 29[
brockway jumped 11{ to 58. owens-illinois said a federal court denied the federal trade commission's request to block its $60-a-share bid to acquire brockway
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks added .25 to 145.39. at the american stock exchange, the market value index was up .41 at 278.33
volume on the big board came to 80.38 million shares at noontime, against 70.42 million at the same point thursday. checks.</note>
ford motor co. has out-earned industry leader general motors corp. for the second straight year, a boon to ford workers who will receive record profit-sharing checks early next month
the no. 2 automaker's fourth-quarter earnings rose 19 percent from a year earlier and full-year earnings jumped 41 percent over 1986, but some wall street analysts said they had expected ford to earn even more
for the final three months of 1987, ford said it earned $932 million, or $1.87 a share, on revenue of $18.8 billion, up from $785 million, or $1.50 a share, on revenue of $16.26 billion in the final quarter of 1986
for the year, ford earned $4.6 billion, or $9.05 a share, on revenue of $71.6 billion, up from 1986 earnings of $3.29 billion, or $6.16 a share, on revenue of $62.7 billion
earnings for the fourth quarter and the year were both records, ford said
per-share earnings in 1986 were readjusted to reflect a two-for-one stock split on dec. 10, 1987
market expectations that ford's earnings would be somewhat higher for the year and for the quarter depressed the price of ford stock after the announcement, said douglas laughlin, industry analyst with dean witter reynolds inc. in new york
after the announcement, ford stock fell, finishing down $2.25 a share at $42.25 on the new york stock exchange
the stock's mostly down on a gut reaction to the number but not on any real conclusive detail. it was a very respectable quarter and the year has been excellent,'' laughlin said
thomas o'grady, analyst with integrated automotive resources inc. in wayne, pa., said the weaker-than-expected fourth quarter may have been caused by incentive programs, which were unnecessary a year earlier when buyers were flooding showrooms to beat 1988 tax reforms
by the end of 1987, ford's nest egg of cash and marketable securities had grown to nearly $10.1 billion from $8.6 billion a year earlier
ford said today its workers will receive an average of more than $3,700 each in profit-sharing checks. the checks, to be distributed march 8, are up substantially from the average $2,100 payout that workers received for 1986
gm workers received no share of 1986 or 1987 profits because the company's u.s. auto earnings were too low
ford's profit-sharing also is based on u.s. earnings, which jumped nearly 40 percent to $3.44 billion in 1987 from $2.46 billion in 1986 due to higher car and truck sales and increased production efficiency, ford said
ford was the only big three automaker to sell more cars and trucks in 1987 than in 1986. ford's f-series pickup truck was the best-selling vehicle for the sixth consecutive year and its escort subcompact was the best-selling car, followed by the ford taurus
for 1987, earnings for industry leader gm rose to $3.6 billion, or $10.06 a share. for chrysler corp., the no. 3 automaker, 1987 earnings fell slightly to $1.3 billion, or $5.90 a share
ford attributed its record performance to improved sales worldwide, strong earnings by subsidiaries and a comfortable relationship with the united auto workers union
the joint effort by employees, suppliers and dealers in bringing the consumer high-quality, value-for-the-money products was the key to 1987 results,'' ford chairman donald petersen and vice chairman harold poling said in a statement
early in the fourth quarter, ford signed a three-year, job-protecting labor pact with the uaw that was negotiated without a strike and helps the company improve production efficiency and cut costs
among ford financial services group subsidiaries, ford motor credit co. earned a record $678.8 million for the year, up 11 percent, while first nationwide financial corp.'s earnings fell 38 percent to $63 million
together, the financial subsidiaries, including u.s. leasing international inc. which ford acquired in the fourth quarter, contributed more than 18 percent of ford's 1987 net earnings
the worst appears over for the dollar but the u.s. currency isn't likely to rise much further, a growing number of european foreign exchange experts say
almost two months after the dollar hit record lows against the japanese yen and the west german mark and a six-year low against the british pound, the dollar has partly recovered and is holding steady in a narrow range
we've certainly seen the bottom, without any doubt,'' john harris, an analyst with commodities broker rudolf wolff and co., said friday. ``we have turned around.''
other analysts made similar assessments, though many agreed that the dollar will not move much higher in the forseeable future
this is the top for the dollar,'' said paul chertkow, director of currency economics at the london investment firm hoare govett ltd
part of the reason, is that the central banks of the major industrial nations _ which spent billions in their own currencies buying dollars to steady foreign exchange rates _ won't let the dollar rise much further, harris said
they wouldn't want to see the dollar suddenly take off. there has been a definite attempt to bring some stabiltiy to the foreign exchange markets,'' harris said
currency experts disagree, however, about whether the dollar will continue to hold steady or will relinquish a portion of its recent gains
chris johns, a currency economist with the investment firm phillips and drew, said, ``my best guess is that we'll get a fairly long period of stability now, until the middle of the year.''
but chertkow said: ``the next major move for the dollar will be lower.''
particularly bearish, chertkow said the markets could see the dollar hit new record lows within months
the dollar began declining sharply in november over concerns about the economic impact of the worldwide stock market crash and the united states' staggering trade and budget deficits
on dec. 31 in london, it hit a record low of 122 japanese yen, a record low of 1.5815 west german marks and a six-year low of $1.8850 against the british pound
as of friday morning in london, the dollar was worth 130.35 yen, 1.7080 west german marks and $1.7460 vs. the british pound
a major turning point came early in january, when central banks set a trap for dollar-selling speculators and pushed up the dollar with unexpectedly aggressive concerted intervention
the speculators who had bet that the dollar would decline further suffered painful losses and many were frightened out of the market. they have remained reuluctant to re-attempt more dollar selling, analysts say
at the same time, the foreign exchange markets' attention mostly has been focused on the u.s. government's merchandise trade reports
the latest figures, reported last friday, showed the deficit shrank for the second consecutive month to $12.2 billion in december from $13.2 billion in november
improvements in the trade figures ease fears that the u.s. government would attempt to lower the deficit by pushing the dollar down, which makes u.s. goods cheaper abroad and imports more expensive in the united states
the trade deficit has turned and the general consensus is that figures will stay the same or improve over the next few months,'' harris said
he added, ``although the u.s. budget deficit hasn't been addressed, it hasn't been a major factor in the market (in recent weeks). it has been discounted.''
but chertkow speculated that people will realize there has been a lack of real progress in improving the trade and budget deficits, and that little progress is likely during this u.s. election year
when the market recognizes that fact, it's going to panic a little,'' chertkow said. ``the market has been lulled into a false sense of security.''
prices dipped in dull trading on the london stock exchange friday, hurt in part by weakness on wall street
the financial times-stock exchange 100-stock index closed down 6.3 points, or 0.4 percent, at 1,729.8
volume was a low 377.8 million shares, compared with 411.3 million thursday
prices were marked down at the opening in response to a fall thursday in new york, brokers said
prices barely moved for the next several hours because of a lack of trading and interest, they said
but prices slipped again in the afternoon when wall street failed to revive at its opening
the market currently is lacking direction because it is receiving contradictory signals about the direction of the economy, and is waiting for british companies to complete reporting their 1987 results, one broker said
only a few companies have already reported their results, and the market needs some indication of how britain's major banks and industrial concerns are doing, the broker said. exchange</head>
the california-based pacific stock exchange says it will join a six-month feasibility study on opening an exchange here
the pacific exchange has trading floors in san francisco and los angeles, and a honolulu facility would allow greater involvement in pacific basin financial markets, an exchange spokesman said thursday
the most likely expansion would mean adding a third trading floor here, although a new exchange operation controlled by the pacific exchange is also a possibility, said the spokesman, don alexander
what makes hawaii an attractive site is its mid-pacific time zone, he said. a hawaii exchange could trade during the gap between the close of exchanges in the mainland united states and the beginning of trading on the tokyo stock exchange
the exchange could operate from 11:30 a.m. to 3 p.m. hawaii time, which is 5:30 p.m. to 9 p.m. est, alexander said
ford motor co. would pay $1.75 million in penalties and close two vinyl-coating production lines to settle an air pollution case at a plant in mount clemens, mich., the justice department announced friday
the government filed a proposed consent decree requiring ford to pay the penalties for discharging excessive amounts of volatile organic compounds in violation of the clean air act
the decree, filed in u.s. district court in detroit, would settle a civil complaint filed in 1984 and would be the largest penalty ever assessed against a company in a case brought by the government involving volatile organic compounds
the complaint said the violations occurred at eight coating lines where production printers applied coatings to vinyl products used in construction of seats, door panels and vinyl roofs
six of the lines were operated without any pollution control equipment and the coatings contained solvents made of the volatile compounds, which were released into the air and contributed to the pollutant ozone, the government said. in significant concentrations, ozone can reduce lung function and increase the incidence of respiratory and heart diseases
the proposed decree will become final on entry by the court following a 30-day public comment period
ford closed six of the lines in 1984 and 1985, and the decree requires the company to close the other two no later than 90 days after the decree becomes final. securities</head>
for those well-heeled investors who dabble in foreign debt securities, the grass was a lot greener on the other side during 1987
weighed down by the sinking dollar, the u.s. treasury bond market performed dismally in comparison with other world markets, although it appeared to be off to a better start this year
salomon brothers' world government bond index showed that treasuries had a total rate of return of only 1.93 percent, compared with an average return of 35.15 percent in dollar value for eight other major world markets. total return includes price change, interest income and currency fluctuations
that's such a big difference. it's the widest margin in our history'' of indexing global bond markets, said carol a. russo, a salomon brothers research analyst
the domestic government bond market performed about half as well as the others in 1986 _ 15.73 percent vs. 31.35 percent. in 1985, the u.s. bond market provided a rate of return of 20.94 percent vs. 35.01 percent for the foreign markets, according to salomon
even the second-worst performer in 1987, the canadian bond market, had a rate of return eight times better than that of domestic government bonds _ 10.01 percent in dollar value and 3.62 percent in local currency, miss russo said
the top performer was the british gilt market, which had a total rate of return of 46.58 percent in dollar value and 15.51 percent in local currency. the results reflected a coordinated effort to drive down interest rates, as well as the dollar's decline against the british pound, miss russo said
other annual rankings, according to salomon, included: japan, 38.11 percent in dollar value, 5.96 percent in local currency; switzerland, 32.59 percent, 4.56 percent; the netherlands, 32.11 percent, 7.55 percent; germany, 29.38 percent, 5.80 percent; australia, 29 percent, 18.84 percent; and france, 26.6 percent, 5.84 percent
all this translated into some healthy returns for investors who either purchased these foreign securities individually or got into an international bond mutual fund
international funds had an average rate of return of 25.07 percent in 1987, second only to gold funds, whose rate of return averaged 35.43 percent, according to mutual fund values, a chicago-based publication that tracks nearly 800 mutual funds
during the same time, treasury bond mutual funds had an average return of negative 0.12 percent, the publication said. government-backed mortgage-related funds had a 0.57 percent return, and general government bond funds, which include both types of securities, had a return of 1.55 percent, it said
economists blame the sharp drop in u.s. government bond prices _ and the accompanyingrise in interest rates prevalent through most of last year _ on fears of higher inflation stemming from rising oil prices and the dollar's weakness in foreign exchange
the market took a turn for the better after the oct. 19 stock market crash, when the federal reserve decided to ease its credit policies to prevent a possible recession
the market's performance in salomon's january index also showed significant improvement
treasuries ranked second in total investment returns, gaining nearly 3.5 percent in value last month. first was the canadian market, which rose 6.7 percent in dollar value
australia came in third, followed by france, japan, britain, the netherlands, west germany and switzerland, salomon said
the balance of power in the banking industry has shifted dramatically since the october stock market crash, leaving many of the nation's largest institutions vulnerable to takeovers, a study released friday said
the report by mac group, a cambridge-based financial research firm, rated 19 of the 50 largest u.s. banking institutions as susceptible to takeover as of the end of last year, compared with just four by sept. 30
in effect there's a new group of very strong institutions beyond the traditionally large institutions,'' said william t. gregor, a mac group senior vice president
the study measured the ratio of a bank's stock market value to its book value _ its worth based on audited financial statements
gregor said the ``market-to-book ratio'' is a ood predictor of a bank's long-term performance capabilities. he said the lower an institution's ratio, the more difficulty it has issuing new stock to raise capital
when you're selling below the book value, you're selling for below what the auditors are saying you're worth,'' gregor said
bank stocks were hard-hit by the oct. 19 market crash. the survey found that from october 31 to december 31, the stock price of the surveyed banks fell 29 percents
the report concluded that:
_a bank's ability to grow and acquire other companies has become a critical feature of financial strength
_banks most severly discounted by the crash are under ``unprecedented pressure'' to strengthen performance to stay independent
_competitive advantage among banks now is more a function of market value and stock market performance than asset size
the 19 banks labeled as vulnerable to takeover all had market-to-book ratios under 1.0 as of december 30. they included: bankamerica corp., of san francisco; bank of boston corp., boston; bank of new york co., new york; chase manhattan corp., new york; first chicago corp., chicago; manufacturers hanover corp., new york; mellon bank corp., pittsburgh; and security pacific corp., los angeles
in effect their earning power wasn't severly disadvantaged but their ability to issue equity and to make acquisitions certainly was damaged,'' gregor said
a core group of 17 banks that emerged from the crash in better shape or with limited damage all had ratio's above 1.0, according to the study. most weren't large banks in terms of assets
they include ``new powerhouses,'' gregor said, such as fleet@norstar financial, of providence, r.i.; sovran financial, norfolk, va.; nbd bancorp inc., of detroit; banc one corp., columbus, ohio; and corestates financial of philadelphia
cleary we're not going to see tomorrow that fleet has made an offer for manufacturers hanover, but nevertheless its clinically possible,'' gregor said. ``i think what we will see is more frequent acquisitions than in the past. in some cases those may be for entire institutions or pieces of institutions.''
new guidelines being considered by the federal reserve board also could compound problems for hard-hit banks, gregor said. the change would require banks to maintain 8 percent of total balance sheets in capital, 4 percent of which would be in equity
a number of institutions are going to find it painful and difficult to do that,'' gregor said. ``there's going to be even greater pressure on capital and therefore on earnings.''
the stock market headed higher in late trading today, continuing its recent flirtation with the 2,000 level in the dow jones industrial average
dow jones's average of 30 blue chips rose 8.78 to 1,995.19 by 3 p.m. on wall street
gainers outnumbered losers by more than 4 to 3 in the overall tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 815 up, 599 down and 504 unchanged
several analysts at major investment firms have lately grown a bit more optimistic about the outlook for the market, citing signs of strength in the manufacturing sector of the economy
buying interest has been evident in some manufacturing stocks and many of the smaller ``secondary'' issues
but investors have remained leery of doing much broad-scale buying, with memories still fresh of the crash in october and talk persisting of a recession this year or in 1989
in a market that has been closely tuned to news developments, there were no major government reports or other economic data to give prices a push in either direction today
texaco climbed 2[ to 42~. financier t. boone pickens sought regulatory approval to buy a stake in the company, in which another prominent investor, carl icahn, already holds a 14.8 percent interest
brockway jumped 11[ to 57|. owens-illinois said a federal court denied the federal trade commission's request to block its $60-a-share bid to acquire brockway
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks rose .66 to 145.80. at the american stock exchange, the market value index was up .78 at 278.70
volume on the big board came to 137.27 million shares with an hour to go
william paley, the 86-year-old founder and chairman of cbs, suffered lung and kidney failure after undergoing emergency surgery last week and remained in critical condition friday at a manhattan hospital
he's in critical but stable condition with pulmonary and kidney failure in the icu (intensive care unit) following emergency surgery,'' said elizabeth erlanger, a spokeswoman for new york hospital-cornell medical center. ``he is currently receiving kidney dialysis.''
contrary to a report last sunday by a hospital administrator that paley was in satisfactory condition, ms. erlanger said that he had been in critical condition since undergoing gall bladder surgery on feb. 11
paley built the columbia broadcasting system from a fledgling radio network that he bought in 1928. he controlled it for more than half a century before turning over the reins in 1983
when cbs's biggest stockholder, loew's corp., became unhappy with his successor's policies, paley teamed with loew's chairman lawrence tisch to retake control in 1986
minstar inc. has revived plans to merge with its boating subsidiary, offering to acquire the genmar industries inc. shares it does not already own and some of the company's outstanding debt for about $85 million
an earlier proposed $559 million acquisition of minstar by genmar, both of which are controlled by minneapolis financier irwin jacobs, fell apart last year when the stocks of both companies plummeted in the october market crash before shareholders were to vote on the deal
under terms of the latest transaction, minstar would pay $11.50 each for the 4.8 million shares, or 16.5 percent, of genmar that it does not own. minstar also would pay $29.4 million for genmar debentures with a principal amount of $35.4 million
genmar traded at $10.75, up 12{ cents from wednesday's close, and minstar traded at $22.75, unchanged from wednesday, in national over-the-counter trading thursday
after the initial proposal was canceled, jacobs had said minstar would sell its sporting equipment and energy services businesses, leaving minstar essentially a powerboat maker
jacobs also had indicated that, after determining the prices minstar could get for those units, he would consider some other way of combining minstar and genmar
last month, minstar said it had received bids for all the sporting goods and energy businesses and estimated that they would sell for $370 million to $400 million
jacobs said wednesday he expected to announce buyers for the energy operations and the ben hogan golf equipment businesses next week. he said negotiations for the other operations are continuing with several possible buyers
with those divestitures complete, minstar will be left with its majority ownership of genmar's boating operations. jacobs said the acquisition of genmar would help boost minstar's market value by making it a ``pure play,'' a company that investors and analysts can assess solely by its performance in the boat business
jacobs heads an investment group that owns more than half of minstar's stock
california regulators sought superior court approval friday to liquidate troubled tmic insurance co., which has been operating under state conservatorship for two years
the problems of tmic, formerly known as ticor mortgage insurance co., stem from the $1.4 billion default of equity programs investment corp., or epic, a virginia-based land syndicator that had acquired 20,000 properties for tax-shelters partnerships
tmic, one of the nation's five largest mortgage insurers, had insured about 45 percent of the epic properties
tmic's problems have steadily deepened over the past two years, and state insurance commissioner roxani gillespie said a new actuarial study completed thursday afternoon indicated tmic's liabilities exceeded assets by $169 million as of dec. 31
making matters worse, the study estimated that tmic faces a future gap of $254 million between liabilities and assets
however, ms. gillespie's spokeswoman, carey fletcher, said the insurance commissioner remains hopeful an alternative to liquidation can be worked out before an april 6 court hearing set for the state's request
this gives them time to seek if something else can be put together,'' ms. fletcher said. ``one is always hopeful.''
further talks are planned between state regulators, other mortgage insurers, the federal national mortgage association, known as fannie mae, and the federal home loan mortgage corp., or freddie mac
state regulators met last monday in chicago with representatives of 13 major mortgage insurers, fannie mae and freddie mac in an effort to find a way to keep tmic's mortgage insurance in force or establish a new company to assume the insurance
the biggest effect of a tmic liquidation would be felt by fannie mae and freddie mac. the two agencies bought tmic-insured mortgages, then sold them as elements of securities on which the agencies guaranteed interest and principal payments
earlier this week, fannie mae said about 1.5 percent, or $3 billion, of the conventional mortgage loans in its portfolio and its outstanding mortgage-backed securities are insured by tmic. the amount includes those related to epic, fannie mae said
late last month, state regulators halted payments on 6,600 tmic properties on which $485 million in principal remained due. deeds to those properties have been offered to lenders in lieu of foreclosure
in all, tmic has issued mortgage insurance on $1.6 billion in loans. because it typically insures about 25 percent of the value of a mortgage, tmic has a risk of about $400 million
publisher robert maxwell announced friday that his family fortune will be given away to worthy causes and he will leave nothing for his children
the report in the maxwell-owned daily mirror was the british publisher's response to critics who have accused him of funneling profits to liechtenstein, a central european duchy and tax haven
the report, under maxwell's byline, said the fortune held by the family-owned pergamon foundation in liechtenstein ``is all to be given away _ and nothing will go to his children.''
massive sums from the foundation, which is worth more than 1 billion bounds ($1.75 billion) and whose present income is estimated at 25 million pounds, will go to medical research and to help israel's jews and arabs find peace,'' the report said
funds would also go toward helping young entrepreneurs break into the communications field, improving education and eliminating conflicts and racial hostilities
the allegation that maxwell's financial holdings are shrouded in secrecy has sometimes been used against him by companies fighting off takeover bids by the publisher
the mirror said the planned fate of the fortune is revealed in a forthcoming authorized biography of maxwell by joe haines, political editor of the mirror newspapers group
it said haines told maxwell he wanted to include information about ``the mystery of liechtenstein,'' to which maxwell is quoted as replying: ``there is no mystery,'' and then detailing his plans to give the money away
the report quoted maxwell's son ian as saying: ``i and all of my sisters and brothers have always known that the wealth my father helped to create would be returned for the benefit of science and medicine. we are all delighted and welcome it.''
stock prices turned upward today, riding a late wave of buying
five minutes before the close, the dow jones average of 30 industrials was up 18.90 points at 2,005.31
a late wave of buying pushed stock prices higher today, carrying the dow jones industrial average past the 2,000 level once again
several analysts at major investment firms have lately grown a bit more optimistic about the outlook for the market, citing signs of strength in the manufacturing sector of the economy
buying interest has been evident in some manufacturing stocks and many of the smaller ``secondary'' issues
after a rally last week that carried over to tuesday, the market flattened out for a couple of days. but no concerted selling pressure developed
newton zinder, an analyst at shearson lehman hutton, said that encouraged traders to step in and buy before the weekend
american standard inc. has won a legal round in its battle to escape a hostile $2.03 billion takeover attempt from power-tool maker black &amp; decker corp
a manhattan federal judge on thursday rejected black &amp; decker's effort to stop american standard from seeking court validation of its ``poison pill'' anti-takeover plan in delaware, where the manufacturer is incorporated
judge robert ward's action affirmed american standard's position that any litigation concerning the plan, designed to make an unwanted takeover prohibitively expensive, should be heard in a delaware court
the legal wrangling was part of an increasingly complicated battle between american standard and black &amp; decker, which undertook the hostile takeover attempt in january
last week, american standard rejected a sweetened $65-a-share offer from black &amp; decker and said it was pursuing alternatives
on thursday, american standard inc.'s board of directors approved a multibillion-dollar recapitalization plan, which would pay stockholders $64 a share in cash and junk bonds, along with stock in the recapitalized company
that plan also would saddle the company with new debt to finance the recapitalization, in which a company realigns its levels of debt and equity. such a strategy has become a common takeover defense because the company often acquires a big debt load that discourages potential acquirers
the dow jones average of 30 industrials jumped 28.18 points to a six-week high of 2,014.59. for the past week the average showed a net gain of 31.33
advancing issues outnumbered declines by more than 2 to 1 on the new york stock exchange, with 999 up, 479 down and 469 unchanged
big board volume totaled 180.30 million shares, against 151.43 million in the previous session. the nyse's composite index rose 1.82 to 146.96
all's quiet on the economic front, federal reserve chairman alan greenspan declared this past week, and most economists were inclined to agree
true, the economy remains at risk of slipping into a mild, election-year recession _ some economists say one has already begun
true, too, the huge trade and budget deficits will eventually have to come down, and the transition could be painful
but in spite of all the problems, greenspan was onto something in remarks this past tuesday after a speech to the bretton woods committee
the relationships at the moment among all the major financial variables seem to be in relative balance,'' greenspan told the private group of economists, executives and former government officials
for the moment, we are in equilibrium,'' he added
such words could not have been spoken four months ago, when the chief of the nation's central bank was pledging to inject money into the banking system to protect the economy from the worst crash in wall street history
aftershocks of the crash that wiped out half a trillion dollars in stock value in a single day seem to have been slight
in recent days the outward measures of the economy have been almost monotonous. not great, but not terrible, either
the dollar has hung around 130 japanese yen, the dow jones industrial average has stuck close to 2,000 points and the yield on the treasury's 30-year bond has evened out at a little under 8.5 percent
of course, the markets have shown themselves to be capable of sliding into chaos with less than a moment's notice. but so far, so good
one of the advantages a fed chairman has in testifying before congress is it only has to be true until he leaves the table,'' observed robert c. holland, a former fed official and president of the washington-based committee for economic development
there's no driving force (in the markets). fearful expectations seem to be tranquilized at the moment,'' holland said
analysts took greenspan's remarks to mean that the fed had no intention of pushing interest rates lower to stave off a possible recession, the formula pushed by an odd mixture of liberals and election-minded republicans
president reagan is nervous that the central bank could spoil his final year in office by inadvertently triggering a recession
there appears to be no need, at present, for restrictive monetary measures,'' the administration said thursday in the economic outlook section of its 1989 budget proposal
the reagan administration is doing its own part to keep the economy growing through that old gop nemesis, deficit spending. reagan's final budget request provides for a 1989 deficit of $130 billion, and it could turn out far larger in case of a slowdown
greenspan's steady-as-she-goes strategy is earning respect even from the kind of economists who ordinarily lobby for stronger economic growth, such as princeton university's alan blinder
there is a serious question now as to how much lower we can push the unemployment rate,'' now at 5.8 percent, blinder said this past week
we ought to be judiciously nudging the rate down, watching the inflationary signals at each step of the way. but you've got to be wary,'' he said
greenspan, blinder said, is exhibiting ``quite a prudent attitude.''
in other business and economic news this past week:
_president reagan proposed his smallest pentagon increase but sharply higher spending for aids research and airline safety in a $1.1 trillion fiscal 1989 budget
_the nation's industrial operating rate was unchanged in january at 82.2 percent of capacity as cutbacks in the production of steel and autos offset gains in other areas
_industrial production edged up 0.2 percent in january despite big declines in auto production and steel, suggesting the economy will slow considerably this year
_sales of existing homes held steady in 1987 at close to 4 million units despite volatile mortgage rates and the october stock market collapse, a national real estate trade group reported
_housing construction declined in january for the second straight month, falling to the weakest level since the end of the last recession
_construction contracts will drop 4 percent this year, led by steep declines in office and other commercial building and lesser drops in housing and public works projects, a forecaster said
_a significant number of americans may have had too little tax withheld from paychecks last year, the internal revenue service said
_domestic car and truck sales, boosted by aggressive buyer incentive programs, rose 2.8 percent in early february over the same period a year ago, automakers reported
_ford motor co.'s earnings jumped 19 percent in the fourth quarter and 41 percent for all of 1987 as the no. 2 automaker outearned general motors corp. for the second straight year
_chrysler corp. chairman lee iacocca said he would dedicate all the profits from new chrysler cars sold in wisconsin this year to a trust fund to help the 5,500 workers in kenosha who will lose their jobs
_international business machines corp. unveiled new internal software for its largest computers, continuing a chain of enhancements dating back to the first system-360 in 1964
_gaf corp. became the first major company to exempt itself from delaware's new law limiting hostile takeovers
_firestone tire &amp; rubber co. said it planned to spin off its worldwide tire business into a $1.5 billion joint venture to be 75 percent owned by tokyo-based bridgestone corp
_irving bank corp. rejected the current $1.08 billion buyout offer from bank of new york co
_california first bank, which is controlled by the bank of tokyo ltd., has agreed to acquire union bank in a deal valued at around $750 million
_american standard inc.'s board of directors approved a restructuring plan to thwart a hostile $2.03 billion takeover bid by black &amp; decker corp
_severe insider-trading penalties are damaging new cases by discouraging potential defendants from cooperating, a top official of the securities and exchange commission was quoted as saying
_gillette co. said it would resist coniston partners' attempt to place four representatives on its board of directors
_texaco inc.'s stock rose following word that t. boone pickens was seeking permission to buy at least 15 percent of the beleaguered oil giant
_the senate energy committee narrowly voted to permit petroleum development in the arctic national wildlife refuge
_an amoco corp. subsidiary won $383 million in damages through international arbitration of a claim it filed against emirates general petroleum corp. in a dispute over a natural gas contract
oil prices rose moderately late friday, but traders said the rally was largely based on internal market influences and not linked to any outside news developments
on the new york mercantile exchange, the march-delivery contract for key west texas intermediate crude closed at $16.70 per 42-gallon barrel, up 25 cents from the thursday close
among refined products traded on the exchange, wholesale unleaded gasoline rose 0.46 cent a gallon to 46.43 cents, and wholesale home heating oil rose 0.72 cent a gallon to 45.80 cents
much of the action was attributed to short-covering, a price-raising influence caused by traders who buy oil to replace borrowed oil they had sold earlier. short-covering can raise prices sharply but it is generally a temporary trend. saturday paper being prepared, pickup 4th pvs ``as recently.'' this is expected to stand for pms.</note>
new york post owner rupert murdoch today re-entered negotiations seeking union concessions and stopped the clock on his deadline for closing the nation's oldest continuously published daily newspaper
just after his 2 p.m. deadline, murdoch slipped out of negotiations and told reporters in a hallway that the clock had been stopped for 15 minutes
the extension continued for two hours with no word from either camp, as murdoch and his management team went to a separate room for discussion
at 4 p.m., union leaders and murdoch spokesman howard rubenstein said both sides were breaking for food
but union leader george mcdonald said murdoch was using the time to meet with peter kalikow, the prospective buyer of the post
they're on their way over to see him to talk about something we discussed,'' mcdonald said, without elaborating
at the same time, at the post's offices, reporters and editors were working on a saturday edition
as recently as this morning, murdoch had vowed he would not stop the clock
murdoch has demanded the unions make $24 million worth of concessions over three years so that he can close a $37 million deal to sell the paper to real estate developer peter s. kalikow
murdoch has said that without the savings, he was folding the paper, whose ownership has put him in conflict with federal regulations barring anyone from running a newspaper and television station in the same city
the post's unions have put forward a savings package they say amounts to $33 million, a figure management has called overstated by $12 million
two major sticking points have been union insistence on a raise for workers and the gap between the total savings management demanded and what it agreed to recognize of the unions' proposed concessions, according to theodore kheel, a consultant to the unions
the allied printing trades council, an umbrella group for post unions, and the delivery truck drivers' union met separately to consider how to come up with the difference
i am very optimistic'' about reaching agreement by 2 p.m., said council president george mcdonald. ``if we fall short, either side, it would be really a disgrace and a disservice for the employees and also the people of new york for losing another paper.''
the council offered a package wednesday that union leaders said would save $33 million over three years _ $9 million more than murdoch demanded. the unions proposed using the difference to fund a wage increase
but management rejected a $12 million plank of the plan _ abolishing pre-shift overtime _ as non-negotiable under the terms of murdoch's contract with kalikow, leaving the two sides in agreement on just $21 million in savings
i would not call this negotiation,'' kheel said. ``this is more of an exercise in trying to fit results to preordained criteria, an ultimatum.''
the newspaper and mail deliverers union proposed saving $3 million by cutting 30 jobs, part of 116 job buyouts at the paper, and extending the work week by a half-hour, said jerry cronin, the union's president
the unions, meanwhile, lost a bid to have the national labor relations board issue a complaint or block the threatened closing
in his contract with kalikow, murdoch has until feb. 22 to negotiate the union concessions, three days past his stated deadline
murdoch chose to sell the post following congressional action that blocked the federal communications commission from granting him a continuation of a waiver of its rule against owning a newspaper and a television station in the same city. murdoch also owns wnyw-tv in new york
he faces a similar situation in boston, where he owns the boston herald and wfxt-tv. he has said he would sell the tv station if forced to choose
murdoch says he has lost nearly $150 million since purchasing the post 11 years ago. the paper was founded by alexander hamilton in 1801. comments on plans. picks up 9th graf pvs, in addition ... also subs last graf to indicate wmaq deal was completed earlier this year.</note>
the national broadcasting co. said friday it had tentatively agreed to sell five radio stations to emmis broadcasting corp., a privately-held concern based in indianapolis, for $121.5 million
nbc had previously disclosed it was looking for buyers for its seven radio stations, and reaffirmed that it hoped to sell the remaining stations
the stations which would be sold to emmis broadcasting under a letter of intent are wnbc-am and wyny-fm in new york, wjib-fm in boston, wkqx-fm in chicago and kyuu-fm in san francisco
the sale is subject to a definitive agreement by the companies and approval by their respective boards of directors, the announcement from nbc said
the sale would leave nbc, a subsidiary of general electric co., with radio stations wkys in washington, d.c., and knbr in san francisco. the company has said it hopes to sell the washington station to a minority group
emmis broadcasting, which was founded in 1980 and claims to be the largest privately-held radio broadcasting company in the united states, already owns seven radio stations, including two in new york city, wfan-am and wqht-fm
the announcement said emmis would have to ``resolve ownership conflict in new york'' if the sale were completed. federal regulations prohibit companies from owning more than one am and one fm radio station in a single media market, according to a spokesman for nbc, dom giofre
emmis president jeffrey smulyan said that no decision has been made on which of the four new york stations would be sold
in addition to the two new york stations, emmis owns kpwr-fm in los angeles; wava-fm in washington, d.c.; kshe-fm in st. louis; wlol-fm in minneapolis; and wens-fm in indianapolis
nbc is rooted in radio broadcasting. radio corp. of america formed nbc in 1926 when it purchased what is now wnbc-am in new york
rca and nbc were acquired by ge in 1986 and nbc began reviewing its radio operations in mid-1987
last summer, it sold its radio network business, which supplies programming to independent stations, for $50 million to westwood one inc., a radio production and distribution company based in los angeles
nbc sold its wmaq-am radio station in chicago earlier this year for $13 million, giofre said. uppicks 6th graf pvs: texaco spokesman...</note>
wall street sent texaco inc's stock higher friday following word that t. boone pickens was seeking permission to buy at least 15 percent of the beleaguered oil giant, a stake similar to that already held by fellow corporate raider carl c. icahn
texaco, which has been reorganizing itself as it prepares to emerge from chapter 11 bankruptcy protection, has been fighting efforts by icahn _ its largest shareholder _ to strip the company of its anti-takeover defenses
company officials have feared that icahn or another raider would try to take the company over and sell its assets to boost the value of their stock
the arrival of pickens on the scene only heightened speculation that such a attempt may well be in the works
in nationwide trading of new york stock exchange-listed issues, texaco's stock closed friday at $42.62{ per share, up $1.87{
texaco spokesman k. peter maneri said the company learned of pickens' action in a tuesday letter saying mesa limited partnership, an oil and gas concern controlled by pickens, had told the federal trade commission that it wanted to buy more than $15 million worth of texaco's stock
if neither the ftc nor the justice department objects, pickens would be free to acquire up to 15 percent of texaco's outstanding shares. mesa also asked the government for an speedy review of its request, which would cut 15 days off the required 30-day waiting time
speaking to reporters friday, texaco president james w. kinnear said he had ``no idea'' what pickens' intentions were, and that the company was capable of warding off any threatening moves by pickens or icahn
i think we have appropriate bylaws and charter provisions to make sure our shareholders' wealth is protected,'' he said
icahn, who controls at least 14.8 percent of texaco's 243 million shares, has said he would seek to install himself and four associates on the company's board of directors, and has been pressing the nation's third-largest oil company to remove anti-takeover provisions contained in its charter
pickens told the new york times thursday that he would support icahn in that effort. andrew craig, a spokesman for pickens, said friday there would be no comment on mesa's texaco filing
pickens and icahn are well known in the oil patch
in 1984, mesa picked up $213 million after a run pickens made on gulf oil co. led to its sale to chevron corp. mesa then offered $9.3 billion for phillips petroleum co., only to accept a $80 million profit when phillips bought the shares back in 1985
soon afterward, icahn led a group of investors with an $8.1 billion bid for phillips that led to another stock buyback and a $50 million profit for icahn
several analysts suggested friday that icahn and pickens could profit by making simultaneous attacks on texaco, even if they do not cooperate directly
gary e. hindes, chairman of delaware bay co., an investment firm, said he believed the two are working together _ if only by ``a wink and a nod'' _ and that they would attempt to take control of texaco's board of directors
this is a major play under way,'' said george j. gaspar, an analyst with the milwaukee investment firm of robert w. baird &amp; co. inc
i don't know what mr. pickens is trying to prove. i think texaco is bigger than icahn and pickens together,'' he said. ``this may be a prelude to a larger plan.''
you've got serious problems with exploration and production (of oil) in the u.s. so obviously icahn is going to try to exploit that. and pickens is just going to ride along.''
other oil companies would be happy to carve into some of texaco's assets,'' he observed
in fact, texaco has already announced its intention to sell off some assets while selling partial shares of others to third parties in an effort to raise at least $3 billion after it emerges from bankruptcy
targeted assets reportedly include several refineries and some oil reserves that are no longer profitable
not included are texaco canada inc. and texaco's half-share in p.t. caltex pacific indonesia _ big money-makers that would be juicy targets to a raider
on thursday, it was reported that texaco and saudi arabia were negotiating a $1 billion deal whereby texaco would sell a half interest in two gulf coast refineries to the saudis
on friday, kinnear declined to discuss that report, saying he did not want to ``negotiate in a fishbowl.''
texaco sought chapter 11 bankruptcy protection last april to avoid having to post a potentially ruinous bond while appealing a $10.3 billion judgment held against the company by pennzoil co
a houston jury awarded the judgment to pennzoil after ruling that texaco had improperly interfered with a pennzoil plan to acquire part of getty oil co. _ and acquired getty itself
as part of its proposed reorganization plan, texaco agreed to settle the case by paying pennzoil $3 billion in cash. it hopes to emerge from bankruptcy protection in april
the latest model of the best-selling boeing 737 jetliner made its maiden flight friday, the first step on the way to federal aviation administration certification later this year
about 450 hours of test flights will be done before certification. the first three 737-400s are to be delivered to piedmont airlines
the first 737-400 was rolled out at boeing's renton assembly plant jan. 26. boeing made it a gala day, rolling out the first 747-400 the same day in everett. that jetliner begins test flights next month
the 737-400 is a stretch version of boeing's workhorse jet. it is slightly more than 119 feet long and can carry 146 to 168 passengers as far as 3,200 miles without refueling
with 1,925 orders as of dec. 31, the 737 series is the world's most popular jet
as with the smaller 737-300, which entered service in 1984, the new plane features fuel-efficient engines, advanced avionics and instruments and improvements in aerodynamics
nine customers have ordered 88 of the 737-400s and hold options for another 35
the stock market jumped ahead friday on a late outburst of buying that pushed the dow jones industrial average past the 2,000 level to a six week-high
the dow jones average of 30 industrials climbed 28.18 points to 2,014.59, its highest close since it stood at 2,051.89 on jan. 7. for the past week the average showed a net gain of 31.33
advancing issues outnumbered declines by more than 2 to 1 on the new york stock exchange, with 988 up, 491 down and 483 unchanged
big board volume came to 180.30 million shares, against 151.43 million in the previous session
several analysts at major investment firms have lately grown a bit more optimistic about the outlook for the market, citing signs of strength in the manufacturing sector of the economy
buying interest has been evident in some manufacturing stocks and many of the smaller ``secondary'' issues
after a rally last week that carried over to tuesday, the market flattened out for a couple of days. but no concerted selling pressure developed
newton zinder, an analyst at shearson lehman hutton, said that encouraged traders to step in and buy before the weekend
brokers also said the market might have benefited from computer-program activity by professional traders involving an expiring stock-index futures contract
texaco climbed 1~ to 42|. financier t. boone pickens sought regulatory approval to buy a stake in the company, in which another prominent investor, carl icahn, already holds a 14.8 percent interest
other gainers among the blue chips included ford motor, up 2{ at 44}; dupont, up 1} at 85; merck, up 2{ at 161\; philip morris, up 1{ at 90|, and american telephone &amp; telegraph, up \ at 29{
airline stocks were strong, helping to lift the dow jones average of 20 transportation stocks 19.28 points to 815.54
brockway jumped 11 to 57{. owens-illinois said a federal court denied the federal trade commission's request to block its $60-a-share bid to acquire brockway
phillips petroleum rose 1 to 15\. the company said it would have a $25 million gain in the current quarter from the settlement of a gas contract dispute
on the downside, pannill knitting fell { to 5{. the company reported fourth quarter earnings of 53 cents a share, against operating profits of 50 cents in the last three months of 1986
as measured by wilshire associates' index of more than 5,000 actively traded stocks, the market increased $25.82 billion, or 1.01 percent, in value
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks added 1.82 to 146.96
nationwide turnover in nyse-listed issues, including trades in those stocks on regional exchanges and in the over-the-counter market, totaled 202.85 million shares
standard &amp; poor's index of 400 industrials rose 4.50 to 301.48, and s&amp;p's 500-stock composite index was up 3.70 at 261.61
the nasdaq composite index for the over-the-counter market gained 1.49 to 357.12. at the american stock exchange, the market value index closed at 280.16, up 2.24
the dollar turned in a mixed performance against major foreign currencies friday, failing to hold gains made late in the previous trading session
gold prices rose. republic national bank of new york reported a late bid of $445 for a troy ounce of gold, up from $442.80 late thursday
in the absence of significant news, the dollar finished the day higher than it had been thursday in europe, but lower than the levels attained in thursday's late rally in new york
thursday's rally was attributed to technical factors and president reagan's statement that he wanted to rescue a kidnap victim in lebanon. international tension tends to increase interest in dollars as a safe haven
the dollar dropped friday in europe against the swiss franc after swiss national bank president pierre languetin said he hoped central banks would sell dollars if the american currency rose too sharply, dealers said
otherwise, ``u.s. dollar trading was actually non-existent today,'' said rod fowler, foreign-exchange manager for wood gundy inc. in toronto
at the moment we're in a stalemate situation'' between bulls and bears on the dollar, said david godwin, chief currency dealer for union bank of switzerland in new york
the british pound fell to $1.7505 from $1.7508 in london. later in new york the pound finished at $1.7495, down from earlier in the day but up from its price of $1.7418 late thursday
in tokyo, the dollar rose to a closing 130.53 japanese yen from 130.00 yen on thursday. in later london trading, the dollar slipped to 130.02 yen. by the end of the trading day in new york, the dollar stood at 130.05 yen, down from 130.38 yen late thursday
other late dollar rates in new york, compared with rates late thursday, included: 1.7080 west german marks, down from 1.7123; 1.3980 swiss francs, down from 1.4098; 5.7755 french francs, down from 5.7870; 1,256.75 italian lire, down from 1,261.00; and 1.2737 canadian dollars, up from 1.2706
other late dollar rates in europe, compared with late thursday's prices, included: 1.7075 west german marks, up from 1.7040; 1.3985 swiss francs, down from 1.4010; 5.7675 french francs, up from 5.7555; 1.9150 dutch guilders, up from 1.9130; 1,257.75 italian lire, up from 1,254.63; and 1.2702 canadian dollars, up from 1.2690
gold bullion dropped to $441 in early trading in europe, then rallied somewhat when traders bought dollars either to limit losses or trade in on the metal's earlier decline
in london, gold fell to a late bid price of $442.90 a troy ounce, down from $444 bid late thursday
in zurich, it fell to $443 bid from $447.50 bid late thursday
hong kong markets were closed for the chinese new year
on the commodity exchange in new york, gold was bid late at $445.10 a troy ounce as of 4 p.m. est, up from $442.80
silver bullion fell in london to a late bid of $6.37 a troy ounce, down from $6.43 bid late thursday. on new york's comex, silver for current delivery was bid at $6.385 a troy ounce, down from $6.43 late thursday
coffee futures for near-term delivery surged above $1.40 a pound friday for the first time since december 1986 on persistent concerns about the scarcity of high-quality beans
on other markets, cattle futures advanced sharply while pork futures were mixed; grains and soybeans, precious metals, energy futures and stock-index futures all moved higher
coffee futures prices on new york's coffee, sugar &amp; cocoa exchange have risen steadily since last september, when the international coffee organization began considering a return to export quotas for producer countries
the export limits were reimposed last october and they, along with late harvests in many central and south american countries, have resulted in tight supplies of high-grade coffee beans, especially the preferred ``mild'' arabica beans, analysts said
fears that the supply problem could continue were exacerbated thursday when the agriculture department estimated the 1988 brazilian coffee crop would total 25 million bags, down sharply from the record 35.2 million bags harvested last year by the world's major coffee producer
basically the feeling is bullish with the shortage of milds,'' said kim badenhop, an analyst in new york for merrill lynch capital markets inc
coffee settled 1.82 cents to 3.49 cents higher with the contract for delivery in march at $1.4074 a pound
cattle for april and june delivery advanced the 1.5-cent limit for daily trading on the chicago mercantile exchange and other cattle contracts also were up sharply in a stunning reversal from thursday's steep losses
the market was looking ahead to a mid-year decline in cattle supplies foreshadowed by last month's usda cattle inventory report, said philip stanley, an analyst in chicago with thomson mckinnon securities inc
you had a very highly charged emotional situation out there today and i think you're probably going to see these kinds of days happen more frequently in coming weeks as we come to grips with the potential bull market of 1988,'' stanley said
hog prices gained support from the rally in the neighboring cattle pits, but frozen pork belly futures retreated in anticipation of increased pork production, stanley said
live cattle were .95 cent to 1.50 cents higher with february at 72.37 cents a pound; feeder cattle were .10 cent to 1.20 cents higher with march at 83.55 cents a pound; hogs were .70 cent lower to .62 cent higher with february at 45.50 cents a pound; frozen pork bellies were .03 cent to .48 cent lower with february at 53.67 cents a pound
grain and soybean futures ended mostly higher on the chicago board of trade after a wild session in the soybean pit
soybeans for march delivery soared to $6.45 a bushel, a new high for the contract, on heavy speculative buying and ``short-covering'' by traders seeking to protect themselves from losses
the rally spread to the neighboring grain pits, but soybean prices collapsed minutes before the close in massive profit-taking, said victor lespinasse, a trader for dean witter reynolds inc. the march contract finally settled at $6.31 a bushel, up 2{ cents from thursday
it was the biggest day we've seen in i can't remember how long,'' lespinasse said
mickey luth, an analyst for shearson lehman hutton inc., said the soybean rally was based largely on perceptions that the acreage available for soybean planting this spring is too small to satisfy the demand for soybeans
wheat settled } cent lower to 6 cents higher with march at $3.22 a bushel; corn was \ cent lower to 2} cents higher with march at $2.00{ a bushel; oats were { cent lower to 1 cent higher with march at $1.91} a bushel; soybeans were 2{ cents to 6} cents higher with march at $6.31 a bushel
gold and silver futures posted modest gains on new york's commodity exchange in reaction to a slight weakening of the dollar and higher crude oil prices, said bette raptopoulos, an analyst for prudential-bache securities inc
gold settled $2.10 to $2.20 higher with the active april contract at $448 a troy ounce; silver was 4.5 cents to 5 cents higher with march at $6.40 a troy ounce
energy futures advanced on the new york mercantile exchange in technically inspired trading, analysts said
west texas intermediate crude oil settled 23 cents to 30 cents higher with march at $16.70 a barrel; heating oil was .44 cent to .89 cent higher with march at 45.80 cents a gallon; unleaded gasoline was .35 cent to .47 cent higher with march at 46.43 cents a gallon
stock-index futures gained on the chicago mercantile exchange, where the contract for march delivery of the standard &amp; poor's 500 index settled 4.65 points higher at 262.95 points. the underlying spot index was up 3.7 points at 261.61. patent case</head>
polaroid corp. said friday it has asked a federal court for $5.7 billion in damages from the eastman kodak co., which was found in 1985 to have infringed on polaroid patents in the instant photography market
the request marks the latest development in a 12-year-old case that forced kodak out of its $200 million-a-year instant photography business
in a statement, kodak called the $5.7 billion damages claim ``ludicrous and ridiculously inflated.''
the claim (is) an exercise in fantastic and fanciful speculation wholly divorced from any facts that polaroid could conceivably prove,'' the kodak statement said
to construct its claim, polaroid has endowed itself with perfect foresight, perfect management and labor, perfect production equipment and supplies and a perfect non-competitive environment,'' it added
both sides have been filing documents in the damages case for the last eight months. a hearing is set for march 18 but a trial date has not yet been set
u.s. district court judge rya zobel ruled in september 1985 that kodak, when it tried to enter the instant photography market, had infringed on a handful of about 150 polaroid patents on instant cameras and instant film
early in the suit, which was filed in april 1976, zobel divided the case into separate trials on the infringement claims and potential damage awards
at kodak's request, zobel ordered polaroid to release its damage request on friday
the judge simply required at kodak's request that both sides make public information we have filed over the last several months with regard to the damages suit,'' polaroid spokesman harry johnson said
the two sides obviously have totally divergent perspectives on this,'' he added
johnson declined to comment on the $5.7 billion damage request
kodak, based in rochester, n.y., charged polaroid with seeking to recover 10 times as much in damages as its after-tax net earnings from 1976-84, and almost twice its revenues from selling instant cameras and film
after a five-month trial in 1985, zobel ruled that kodak had infringed on polaroid's patents and ordered kodak to stop making and selling instant cameras and instant film as of jan. 9, 1986
kodak lost its final appeal in the case in the u.s. supreme court, which in october 1986 refused to hear arguments in the case
in the original trial and appeals, polaroid argued that kodak has copied its sx-70 instant photo camera, which was introduced in 1972 and produced a color print without requiring the user to ``strip garbage'' or apply chemicals
polaroid, based in cambridge, mass., reported 1987 earnings of $116 million on net sales of $1.76 billion, compared to 1986 earnings of $103.5 million on net sales of $1.63 billion
consumer sales account for about 60 percent of the company's sales, johnson said, with the rest in technical and industrial products
kodak reported 1987 profits of $1.8 billion, or $3.52 a share, on total sales of $13.3 billion worldwide, compared with profits of $374 million, or $1.10 cents a share, on total sales of $11.55 billion for 1986
the following is a list of banks considered vulnerable to takeover as of dec. 30, 1987 and their market-to-book ratios as reported by a study released friday by the mac group
the 19 banks had market-to-book ratios of less than 1.0, the study said. the ratio measures a bank's stock market value to its worth based on audited financial statements
ameritrust corp., cleveland, 0.90
bankamerica corp., san francisco, 0.48
bank of boston corp., boston, 0.95
bank of new york co. inc., 0.81
boatmen's bancshares inc., st. louis, 0.97
chase manhattan corp., new york, 0.62
chemical new york corp., 0.62
continental illinois corp., chicago, 0.56
first bank system inc., minneapolis, 0.99
first chicago corp., 0.77
first interstate bancorp., los angeles, 0.80
first republicbank corp., dallas, 0.11
irving bank corp., new york, 0.94
manufacturers hanover corp., new york, 0.52
mellon bank corp., pittsburgh, 0.68
ncnb corp., charlotte, n.c., 0.99
security pacific corp., los angeles, 0.81
shawmut bank corp., boston, 0.94
valley national corp., phoenix, 0.89
bond prices barely budged friday in light trading that brokers attributed to lack of significant news and reluctance to buy or sell until more economic statistics are revealed later this month
the treasury's key 30-year issue rose about $1.25 per $1,000 in face amount. its yield, which moves inversely to price, eased to 8.43 percent from 8.44 percent late thursday
it seemed pretty quiet around here today,'' said carol stone, senior economist at nomura securities inc. in new york. ``i think people are waiting for some news they might learn next week.''
the commerce department is scheduled to report january factory orders tuesday, revised fourth-quarter gross national product thursday, and january consumer price index friday
those statistics could provide further insight into whether the economy is heading into a recession, as some analysts fear, or is growing vigorously and possibly inciting inflation
an economic slowdown would imply lower interest rates and likely help bond prices. conversely, signs of inflation would imply higher interest rates and tend to depress bond prices
in the secondary market for treasury bonds, prices of short-term governments were unchanged, while intermediate and long-term maturities rose [ point, the financial information service telerate inc. reported
the movement of a point equals a change of $10 in the price of a bond with a $1,000 face value
the merrill lynch daily treasury index, which measures price movements on all outstanding treasury issues with maturities of a year or longer, rose 0.04 to 113.31. the shearson lehman daily treasury bond index, which makes a similar measurement, rose 0.42 to 1,184.74
among corporate bonds, industrials and utilities were unchanged to slightly higher in light trading
moody's investment grade corporate bond index, which measures price movements on 80 corporate bonds with maturities of five years or longer, rose 0.59 to 282.87
among tax-exempt municipal bonds, general obligations and dollar bonds both rose about \ point in extremely light trading
yields on three-month treasury bills fell 1 point to 5.67 percent. a basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage point. six-month bills fell 4 basis points to 5.95 percent and year bills fell 1 basis point to 6.24 percent
the federal funds rate, the interest on overnight loans between banks, traded at 611-16 percent, up from 6| percent late thursday
an ``extremely upset'' wall street trader was charged with weapons possession and witness intimidation friday after authorities alleged he plotted an attack on convicted financier ivan f. boesky with a loaded semi-automatic rifle
the arrest of john a. mulheren marked the first public indication of potential violence in a financial scandal surrounding boesky and suggested that government investigators are closer to making new arrests
mulheren, a general partner in the firm jamie securities co., was seized near his rumson, n.j. home thursday in possession of an israeli-made semi-automatic rifle, said monmouth county assistant prosecutor alton kenney
mulheren was ordered held in lieu of $17,500 bail after a hearing friday
a complaint filed against mulheren in freehold alleged the weapon was to be used ``unlawfully against the person or property'' of boesky, a former financier whose downfall more than a year ago shook the financial world
the complaint also mentioned a possible attack against michael davidoff, a former head trader for boesky who is cooperating in a government investigation of the financial scandal
authorities declined to say why they believed mulheren was plotting against boesky and davidoff, but mulheren once was a close associate of boesky and reportedly has been implicated in the government's investigation
meanwhile in manhattan, federal prosecutors charged mulheren in a two-count criminal complaint with attempting to intimidate a cooperating witness, who was identified only as witness x, formerly employed by boesky. they refused to confirm or deny that witness x is davidoff
the federal complaint quoted mulheren's wife as telling police he had been ``extremely upset by the boesky situation'' and ``was armed and was going to get'' witness x
the complaint said when police seized mulheren, they found the loaded rifle as well as army fatigue-type clothing in a bag in his car
boesky's whereabouts weren't immediately clear and he could not be reached for comment. his attorney harvey l. pitt did not return two telephone calls seeking comment. a secretary said he was out of the office
in november 1986 boesky paid a record $100 million to settle a securities and exchange commission complaint of insider trading, the misuse of private information to profit in securities transactions. he was banished from the securities business for life
last april, boesky pleaded guilty to a criminal charge of conspiracy to lie to the sec, for which he was sentenced to a three-year prison term in december. he's scheduled to start serving the sentence next month
boesky has been the government's chief source of information in a probe of other wall street professionals
last september, the wall street journal quoted unidentified people it said were familiar with the investigation as saying mulheren was cooperating with the government as a result of boesky's disclosures
the newspaper also said without attribution that the investigation could lead to civil and criminal charges against mulheren
fred m. stone, a lawyer for jamie, said the company's partners are discussing a course of action in the wake of mulheren's arrest. stone declined to say how many partners were involved in jamie
stone also released a statement from mulheren's new york attorney otto obermaier
it is known that john mulheren has been upset by the investigation by regulatory authorities of securities activities and by the rumors and publicity which developed which he felt unfairly impugned his honesty and integrity,'' obermaier said
the important thing now is for him to get help and support to permit him to resume a normal and constructive life. he is in the process of seeking required medical assistance,'' said obermaier's statement
the new jersey complaint named mulheren on charges of unlawful possession of weapon and intent to use the weapon unlawfully, said kenney
the possession charge carries a maximum sentence of five years in prison and $7,500 in fines, while the other charge carries a maximum penalty of 10 years in prison and $100,000 in fines upon conviction, the prosecutor said
kenny said federal authorities in manhattan had filed papers to arrest mulheren if he posted the local bail
kenney said rumson police went to mulheren's home thursday and received permission from his wife to search the family car, where police seized a 9mm pistol, a .357-caliber magnum revolver and a shotgun. but mulheren was not arrested then because he was licensed for the weapons
police began watching mulheren afterward and later thursday stopped him in his car after he left home
kenney said police found a satchel in the car containing the semi-automatic rifle
the prosecutor said mulheren was then arrested because the rifle was ``clearly not a sportsmen's weapon'' and, although such firearms can be owned in new jersey, a permit is needed to carry them off private property
eastman kodak co. said friday its innovative 9-volt lithium batteries, which were supposed to have a shelf life of 10 years, don't last that long
until the problem is corrected, they won't have a storage life of 10 years,'' said kodak spokesman henry kaska. ``but i don't think the average consumer is going to run into any difficulty.''
the company said the problem does not affect the use life of the batteries, only the amount of time they can sit on store shelves
the news prompted black &amp; decker corp. to announce immediate plans friday to stop selling mini-flashlights that were designed to exclusively use kodak's 9-volt lithium batteries
we're very concerned with selling the best possible product and we relied on kodak's word,'' said barbara lucas, a spokeswoman for the baltimore-based company. ``we can't very well continue to be associated with something like this.''
she said the company planned to notify dealers and ask them to pull the lite years flashlights, introduced last year, and the recently-announced just-for-me line off the shelves immediately
she didn't know how many products would have to be pulled off the shelves, but said the lite years line had been selling well
when the unique batteries were introduced last year, kodak touted them as lasting twice as long as 9-volt alkaline batterie and having a 10-year shelf life
however, routine testing last week by kodak determined the batteries don't last that long on store shelves or in car glove compartments, especially when they're used in ``high-drain'' products such as flashlights, kaska said
kodak officials, who told black &amp; decker about the problem, said the shortened shelf life is caused by a buildup of resistance inside the battery that prevents full current from being transmitted
the problem is much more noticeable in products where a great deal of current is needed, rather than ``medium drain'' products, like smoke detectors or calculators
kaska said the problem would be corrected, however, within a few weeks, and the claim of 10 years of shelf life would be accurate once again
we understand the problem. we know how to fix it and will do so quickly,'' said james moxley, president of ultra technologies, the kodak subsidiary that makes and sells batteries
he said the problem, which was discovered last week in ongoing storage-life tests, does not affect how long the batteries can be used, only the amount of time they can be stored
the less-than-predicted storage life will be corrected by changing the electrolytic chemical used in the batteries, moxley said
as a matter of good business ethics, we reported the results of our tests to black &amp; decker,'' he said. ``obviously, we are disappointed by the company's action.''
