about 60,000 demonstrators gathered thursday night in the main zocalo plaza to protest the government's new inflation-fighting program which has sparked higher prices throughout the economy
the protesters demanded that the government place controls on prices, nearly triple the minimum daily wage and halt payments on its foreign debt of $105 billion, the second highest in the developing world after brazil
there were no reports of arrests or violence
ignacio betancourt, who spoke on behalf of the national resistance front, said the government of president miguel de la madrid has ``stabbed the people by implementing the (economic solidarity) pact.''
he said de la madrid's cabinet should be fired because it ``has brought the country to disaster.''
the resistance front represents the opposition revolutionary workers party, the workers union of the national autonomous university of mexico and a dissident wing of the governing institutional revolutionary party
cuauhtemoc cardenas, who left the governing party to run as the presidential candidate of small opposition parties, was among the protest leaders
the economic solidarity pact was put into effect in mid-december. as part of the plan, the government boosted prices on a variety of regulated goods and services by an average of 78 percent. the minimum daily wage was boosted 38 percent and now stands at 7,765 pesos, about $3.40
on march 1, the government will begin an indexation plan that will increase wages and prices a certain amount each month based on projected inflation
the government's aim is to reduce the monthly rate of inflation to 1 percent to 2 percent by year's end. consumer prices soared 15.5 percent in january
prices rose a record 159.2 percent last year
private analysts estimate that workers have lost half their purchasing power since 1982
de la madrid said wednesday that inflation is ``the most serious problem we face'' and will be managed ``in a prudent, sensible and realistic way.''
de la madrid spoke during an appearance in toluca, 45 miles northwest of mexico city
despite the government's efforts, some private analysts predict that inflation will be in the range of 150 percent to 200 percent this year
labor leaders are threatening massive strikes in march unless major salary increases are granted
police on thursday detained and questioned two american women working in a resettlement camp then turned them over to the u.s. embassy, officials said
an episcopal minister, the rev. donald lewis of san marino, calif., identified the two as kathleene hoy and mary parmenter of pasadena, calif. he claimed their detention was a part of increased harassment of u.s. ecumenical workers by salvadoran authorities in recent months
the two california women were detained ``for entering restricted areas without authorization,'' said agent orlando ramirez of the treasury police, whose jurisdiction includes investigations of customs and immigration violations
ramirez said they were apprehended at the copapayo camp near suchitoto, about 25 miles northwest of san salvador. guerrillas frequently carry out operations in the area
he said the women, along with seven salvadorans, were detained thursday morning and brought to the capital. the two u.s. citizens were released into the custody of u.s. vice consul mark schall after several hours of questioning, he said
u.s embassy spokesman jacob gillespie said the privacy act prevented him from confirming the women's names or details of the incident. but he agreed with the treasury police report that two american women were detained and later released
lewis, chairman of a diocesan task force for salvadoran resettlement, said he was informed of the detention by telephone by a u.s. embassy official in san salvador
he said the military has been harassing americans providing humanitarian assistance in el salvador since about 20,000 salvadoran refugees in honduras decided to return to their homeland last fall
since then, the government nervousness and harassment of ecumenical workers has increased ... our concern is that this kind of caseworker harassment has happened to others who are strictly down there for humanitarian reasons,'' he said
guerillas from five leftist groups have been fighting since 1980 to overthrow the u.s.-backed government
larry thorson, associated press news editor in london for the past five years, has been named asia news editor, based in tokyo, and will be succeeded in london by correspondent marcus eliason
the appointments were announced wednesday by ap president louis d. boccardi
thorson, 47, has been stationed overseas for the ap since 1976, beginning with seven years in israel. he was tel aviv bureau chief in 1980-83
he joined ap in philadelphia in 1970. in 1972, he was transferred to new york, where he worked primarily on the world services desk, with stints on the foreign desk and at the united nations. before joining ap he served as a peace corps volunteer in thailand
eliason, 41, joined ap in tel aviv in 1967 and became correspondent in charge of the jerusalem office in 1972. in 1978 he was transferred to paris and returned to tel aviv in 1980 as news editor
since 1984 he has been based in london, where he has been a general assignment newsman and has regularly covered ireland and northern ireland, as well as major international conferences
history buffs organizing re-enactments of major civil war battles this summer are running into the same problem gens. ulysses s. grant and robert e. lee faced 125 years ago _ not enough billy yanks and johnny rebs to go around
there are so many re-enactments planned that you could stay busy just about every weekend,'' said charles sullivan, a member of ``stanford's mississippi battery.''
but the civil war fanatics who dress up in blue or gray to camp out and charge through fields in battlefield re-enactments have a manpower solution that was not available in the civil war _ fight for both sides
sometimes you have to hastily reorganize your loyalties if you want to be part of something,'' said sullivan, who in more sedate moments is chairman of the social studies department at mississippi gulf coast junior college
this summer is an especially busy period because two of the key battles of the civil war _ vicksburg and gettysburg _ occurred at virtually the same time,'' he said
gettysburg activities will take place in the weeks leading up to the 125th anniversary of the battle, which was fought july 1-3, 1863, while the vicksburg re-enactment is planned for the july fourth weekend, when that rebel stronghold on the mississippi river fell to grant's army
last year more than 40,000 people watched as 6,000 buffs recreated the bloody battle of shiloh in tennessee, where confederate troops surprised grant's troops on april 6, 1862. the rebels were defeated in a two-day battle
thousands of re-enactors belong to groups of civil war buffs, but demand has been so intense that several events, including an annual re-creation of the battle of champion hill, have had to be rescheduled
champion hill was fought on may 16, 1863, and paved the way to vicksburg for union troops. it will be observed in march this year because it would have conflicted with preparations for the gettysburg event
sullivan said that to deal with changing demands, many re-enactors carry two sets of uniforms so that at a moment's notice they can march as either a rebel or a yankee
leyland french, operator of an antebellum tour home here, said that by staging vicksburg activities immediately after those at gettysburg, ``it may be possible for more people to make both events.''
we've talked with representives of 41st illinois infantry who plan a weekend encampment and we had a call this week from a gentleman in missouri who wants to bring a group,'' said lenore barkley, executive director of the vicksburg convention and visitors' bureau
while gettysburg is perhaps the best-remembered clash of the civil war, the fall of vicksburg on july 4, 1863, was a vital strategic loss to the south, leaving the confederacy almost cut in two and giving control of the mississippi to the north
the siege began may 18, 1863, and ended when confederate gen. john c. pemberton, out of food and water, surrendered on july fourth
the battle, fought in trenches, enventually involved 100,000 men, some 50,000 fewer than marched into battle at gettysburg, where lee's invasion of pennsylvania was turned back
sullivan said that despite the expense of uniforms, equipment and the time and travel, most re-enactors were anxious to participate in as many events as possible
we are talking about salesmen, bookkeepers, teachers, truck drivers, doctors, and lawyers _ all united by a common love of history,'' sullivan said
it's like a time machine, providing a feeling of history you can't get any other way,'' he said
he said many buffs, both from north and south, preferred to march as confederates, perhaps because of the romance of the lost cause
re-enactors were used when they made the television movie north and south, and just about everyone wanted to be a confederate, including most of the yankees,'' he said. ``in the end, they had to make our group go in as union troops.''
esl inc., the silicon valley defense contractor whose offices were the scene of a deadly shooting rampage, is best-known for a product dubbed guardrail, a light plane modified with radio eavesdropping equipment
the trw subsidiary was the sixth-largest santa clara county defense contractor in 1986 with $89.8 million in government contracts
on tuesday richard wade farley, 39, of san jose, surrendered to police after a six-hour siege which began when he allegedly entered a building with four guns and began shooting. he apparently had been spurned by a woman who was an engineer there. seven people were killed and four hurt in the attack
the company employs about 2,800 people, working on radar-jamming hardware and software and intelligence-gathering equipment. customers include the army and the national security agency
esl stands for electro-magnetic systems laboratories. founded in 1964, it was purchased by giant redondo-beach, calif.-based trw in 1978
of all of trw's divisions, they keep the lowest profile and do very little in the way of advertising and public relations,'' dave boutacoff, managing editor of defense electronics magazine, told the san francisco chronicle
security at the company is reportedly tight, with a guard at the front door checking identification badges
however, lenny siegel, director of the pacific studies center, a defense watchdog organization, said it's not like an airport
they don't necessarily check everybody's belongings or frisk anybody,'' he said
as china enters the year of the dragon, the symbol of good fortune is everywhere in the capital _ in neon and plastic, on posters and in newspapers _ despite the official communist line against superstitious beliefs
the dragon is considered the most auspicious of the 12 animals in the chinese zodiac, and it continues to be china's favorite symbol of luck, power and grandeur
the chinese, who call themselves ``descendents of the dragon,'' regard the dragon year as lucky for marriage, birth and business
throughout beijing, neon dragons beam from atop buildings, plastic dragons twine around pillars, and the character for dragon is on signs welcoming the new year
red banner headlines in chinese newspapers wednesday hailed the start of the new lunar year and devoted extensive space to articles on the dragon's history, development and significance
even the state-run beijing review linked the dragon to hoped-for economic success this year. on the cover of the authoritative magazine's feb. 15 issue, the headline read, ``coastal areas: boom expected in year of dragon.''
the dragon's role in chinese culture dates back as early as the new stone age. a dragon made of shells was discovered last year in a tomb from the 7,000 year-old yangshao civilization unearthed in henan province
in dynastic times, the yellow dragon was the symbol of the emperor, and anyone found using the motif was punished severely
it is said that no mortal has ever seen the dragon, but ancient writers described the dragon as having the antlers of a deer, the head of a camel, the eyes of a ghost, the neck of a serpent, the belly of a sea snake, the scales of a carp, the claws of an eagle, the paws of a tiger and the ears of a bull
artists portrayed this fantastic creature in a variety of ways, but most dragons look something like reptilian serpent with four sharp-clawed feet and a horse-like head with sharp horns
the dragon is one of the most prominent figures in chinese art, architecture, clothing and even furniture, and it remains an important symbol to the chinese
a pair of red dragons flying amid clouds dominated the top corner of the wednesday edition of the official people's daily, mouthpiece of the communist party
other national newspapers published photographs of dragon dances and spectacular dragon lanterns
a five-hour spring festival television special tuesday night showed dragon ice sculptures in harbin, heilongjiang province, china's northeasternmost major city, and fiery dragon dances in canton
a 10-part tv series on the dragon will be shown across the nation
the forbidden city, formerly the imperial palace, is holding a dragon art exhibition, and a display at beijing's nationalities museum shows how the dragon is depicted in the folk art of the miao minority people from southern china
in china's major cities and tourist centers, dragons of all sizes and shapes adorn doorways to hotels and tourist shops, grinning from signs welcoming tourists
special dragon-related activities are planned throughout the year, which officials have designated the international year of tourism. visitors will be treated to events ranging from a dragon kite show in weifang, shandong province, to traditional dragon boat races in several major cities
china's controversial family planning policies have failed for the second straight year. the growing willingness of couples to defy the one-child limit threatens to send the population zooming out of control
china has estimated that to hold its population within the planned limit of 1.2 billion in 2000 and 1.5 billion in 2050, it must keep the birth rate below 1.5 percent
but the birth rate hit 2 percent in 1986 and stayed there in 1987. if that pace is maintained, china's 1 billion people will become 2 billion by 2030, according to a recent estimate by the u.n. fund for population activities
in a recent front-page commentary, the official people's daily declared the family planning situation was ``out of control'' in some provinces
one false move may lose the game,'' it said. ``china's continuously growing population is in fact facing a crisis.''
the surge is fueled largely by newly prosperous peasants who have enough money to pay government fines for breaking the one-child limit and incentives under the new economic reforms to do so
since the breakup of communes in the early 1980s, families have been responsible for farming their own plots of land. more children to help plant and harvest means more profit
even urban residents, who surveys indicate are less eager than peasants to have large families, envy the ease with which newly rich peasants have been able to ``buy'' extra children
fines vary from region to region but generally amount to about $270 per year for five years. the amount isn't prohibitive if several family members chip in
the average rural income is about $270 per couple, but annual family incomes of several times that amount are increasingly common
city residents face not only fines but suspension from work for one or two years for having a second child
officials responded to the high 1986 birth rate with calls for better birth control education. but when the 1987 figures came out, the family planning minister, wang wei, was sacked
the government also announced measures to tighten local enforcement of the one-child limit by linking it to officials' paychecks
at an urgent meeting of family planning officials early this year, acting premier li peng ordered that officials be rewarded or punished based on how well they enforce the one-child policy
but chinese authorities, sensitive about past u.s. congressional charges of coerced abortions, said at a recent news conference that officials will not be rewarded for high numbers of abortions in their jurisdictions
efforts are to be made to raise the use of birth control and contraceptive methods and reduce the number of abortions,'' said liang jimin, director of the family planning commission's general office
he insisted that only ``education and persuasion'' would be used to encourage abortions when families already have a child
in an apparent reflection of the new tough attitude, medical workers in beijing said hospitals recently have begun refusing admission to women about to give birth to a second or third child
family planning authorities also have gotten tougher on migrant worker families who have taken advantage of their roving status to flout the one-child limit
the official xinhua news agency said some migrant couples have as many as five or six children
in the northeastern city of shenyang, officials ruled in january that employers must issue ``planned birth cards'' to all migrant workers so their family sizes can be recorded and monitored
family planning education programs have been stepped up. almost the only propaganda posters still seen in china are those touting the one-child policy
china central television, mindful that half of all chinese homes have televisions, broadcast weekly programs on family planning last year
but a combination of demographics and superstition make it likely births will increase rather than drop in 1988
the population of child-bearing women increased by 7 million in 1987 and will grow by 8 million this year, to 297 million, as the products of china's baby boom of the 1960s reach maturity
furthermore, 1988 is the year of the dragon in china's traditional 12-year astrological cycle. the dragon is a symbol of good luck and power, and many young couples are expected to try to have their one child this year
the official workers' daily recently tried to debunk traditional beliefs about lucky ``dragon babies.'' if birth control limits are ignored, it warned, ``the dragon year will not be lucky for an over-populated nation.''
comedian red skelton and singer mary martin were among the friends who gathered to remember composer frederick loewe as a man who could make life laugh and sing like the broadway musicals he helped create
the tragedy of my life is that i never did get to do a musical with him,'' miss martin, stage star of ``south pacific,'' and ``the sound of music,'' told about 75 friends and fans at an outdoor memorial service at loewe's estate here wednesday
skelton, a friend for 32 years, called loewe's music ``the pomp and splendor of life _ a celestial sound that inspires happiness.''
loewe, who combined his music with the words of alan jay lerner to create such broadway classics as ``brigadoon,'' ``my fair lady,'' ``paint your wagon'' and ``camelot,'' died sunday of heart failure. he was 86
the two-time tony award winner and co-writer of memorable tunes like ``i could have danced all night,'' ``if ever i would leave you,'' and ``thank heaven for little girls'' was buried after a private graveside service in nearby cathedral city
at the public gathering, skelton recalled flashes of loewe's humor: his responding to a compliment that the music in ``gigi'' grew on people by calling the show ``a musical fungus,'' and quipping that the best thing about rock music was that a listener couldn't tell if his record was scratched
life was truly a feast for him,'' said friend gloria greer, ``and he wanted to enjoy and savor every bit of it.''
dorothy hart, sister-in-law of composer lorenz hart, said loewe had a flair for the extravagant even before he made it big
if he had $90 to his name, then he'd buy $90 worth of caviar,'' ms. hart said
loewe grew up in vienna, austria, in a musical family and came to the united states in his 20s. his marriage of 26 years to the former ernestine zerline ended in divorce, without children
a man pleaded guilty wednesday to charges he helped whiz-kid businessman barry minkow siphon off $320,000 from his zzzz best co. before the carpet cleaning company collapsed
eugene j. lasko, 56, of reseda pleaded guilty to conspiracy and could receive up to five years in prison and a $250,000 fine at sentencing march 28
assistant u.s. attorney jim asperger said lasko laundered the money in las vegas casinos at minkow's behest
minkow, 21, founed zzzz best his parents' garage at age 15 and built it into a $50 million a year business before its collapse last year amid allegations of financial wrongdoing
minkow and nine others face trial march 8 on racketeering, securities fraud, bank fraud and money laundering charges. minkow and others are accused of stealing half a million dollars from zzzz best
the overall percentage is still tiny, just 4.7. but that represents a big increase, of 33 percent, in the number of black children attending private schools over a decade and a half. black enrollment in catholic schools was even more remarkable, growing from 4.8 percent in 1971 to 8.5 percent in 1985, according to the national association of independent schools. two stories report on such schools in georgia and in arkansas
happy noises hum down the halls of the progressive christian academy and filter into the paneled office. principal betty tolbert stops her paperwork to listen attentively
a substantial, gray-haired woman, she seems frozen in her swivel chair as she strains to catch the sounds coming from the classrooms, a buzz of song, recitation and prayer
relaxing after a moment, she nods approvingly. a smile melts the concentration that had creased her forehead
yes,'' she says. ``it's a good sound, the sound of children learning.''
a bell rings and the halls are filled with children. the girls are immaculately dressed in green plaid jumpers and white blouses. the boys wear green pants, white shirts and black ties
the children have something in common besides the uniforms: all 482 have dark skins
welcome to the progressive christian academy, the only large-scale, all-black, private christian school i know of,'' said mrs. tolbert, the 53-year-old founder and driving force behind the school. ``our motto is `all things are possible within the lord.' ''
the non-profit academy is housed in a one-story brick building atop a hill near downtown macon. until 1983, the building was a public elementary school. progressive christian is leasing it with an option to buy
you're looking at a miracle here,'' mrs. tolbert said proudly as she walked down the hall, past photographs of the rev. martin luther king jr., diana ross and bill cosby. ``this place was a total wreck when we moved in 18 months ago. now we're a family. we're also a vital education center that is serving the needs of black children.''
mrs. tolbert said she came to perceive those needs in the 18 years she was a public schoolteacher and principal
it was clear to me that the public school system wasn't providing the moral guidance, the loving discipline and the positive self-image reinforcement that many children need in order to flourish,'' she said
in the summer of 1985, betty tolbert took the plunge with $50,000 in savings and loans. she opened a trial summer school at the progressive baptist church, where her husband is pastor
we had 75 children and taught remedial reading and math with an emphasis on christian principles and the development of positive self-esteem,'' she said. ``it was incredible. i began to see a change in those children on a daily basis and so did their parents. they kept telling me their kids were so excited about the school that they didn't even have to get them up in the mornings
that fall i quit my job (as principal of an integrated public magnet school) and opened this school, which goes from k4 (pre-kindergarten) through the eighth grade. we started with 175 students. by the summer of '86, we had 400 students enrolled and had to move out of the church. now, with 482 students and 38 employees, we've got cramped quarters once again.''
the progressive christian academy is one of four mostly black private schools, including a tiny class run by seventh-day adventists, in bibb county. some 5,000 of the county's 30,000 school-age children attend private schools, most of them white
most of our children came to us from the public schools, where many were doing poorly,'' she said. ``they were developing poor self-images and their parents were afraid their children were going to be lost.''
kendall reid, a sixth-grader, feels he was one such student
i was a little mouse. i was so scared i just couldn't speak up,'' he recalled of his three years in public school. ``i had a white teacher in the first grade who told my parents i was retarded. she and the kids used to make fun of me. now i'm on the honor roll, and i know i'm not retarded.''
other students said they had to work harder at progressive christian and had fewer social and athletic activities yet still preferred their private school to public classrooms
the kids here aren't as mad as they were in public school,'' said latonya raines, an eighth-grader. ``and the teachers really seem to care about you here.''
bibb county commissioner william randall, who worked to integrate the county's schools two decades ago, said he found the present situation ironic
i've got two grandchildren in mrs. tolbert's school, including a grandson who wasn't doing well in public school,'' randall said. ``my grandson is doing much better now that he's in the private school.''
mrs. tolbert said her school, in addition to providing a christian atmosphere, gives the children positive role models
they get to see black people in charge,'' she said. ``we also strive to instill in them the belief that everybody is somebody special. we stress the worth of the individual.''
she said her school also accommodates the students' special needs and schedules
for one thing, she said, ``we're open from 6 a.m. until 6 p.m., which especially helps single parents. we provide a warm, loving atmosphere, but we also stress academics and have volunteer tutors for high-risk failures. then, too, we supervise the homework of those students who stay after school.''
she said the parents pay $30 a week for one child and $50 for two or more. they must provide books, uniforms and lunches for their children
several mothers, interviewed as a group, agreed they were thrilled with the school even though tuition money is hard to spare
my little boy is happy now. there hasn't been a day he hasn't gotten up and gotten himself ready for school. morning can be an especially tense time for a single parent, and i simply can't tell you how much this means to me,'' said natalie coggins, a social security claims examiner with two children at the school
mrs. tolbert said parents of eighth-graders want her to offer high school classes so children won't have to return to public school
i'm also getting requests from parents outside the area to start a boarding school,'' she added. ``i'd like to do that, but first we need to raise enough money to pay off our bills and complete our library, which we need to do to be fully accredited.'' the school now has provisional accreditation and plans a library fund-raising drive
i feel certain these things will all come in time. meanwhile, i must be doing something right. it's all i can do, when i go out in the hall, not to get knocked down by all the hugs i get.''
strat douthat is the ap southeastern regional reporter, based in atlanta
an inventor who claims he has devised a machine that produces more energy than it uses says he will appeal a judge's refusal to force the government to give him a patent for his invention
i am pleased the judge has finally ruled because i am counting on getting up to the higher court,'' joseph w. newman said wednesday after u.s. district judge thomas penfield jackson rejected his lawsuit against the u.s. patent and trademark office
i was very certain he was going to be consistent and rule against me,'' said newman, 51, of lucedale, miss
jackson upheld the patent office's refusal to grant a patent for the device, saying there was insufficient scientific evidence to support newman's claim the machine converted matter into energy
patent examiners rejected newman's application after ruling that such a machine would violate the second law of thermodynamics. that law of physics holds that energy is inevitably consumed by any mechanical process so that a machine cannot produce more energy than is used to power it
the same law rules out the existence of similar, so-called ``perpetual motion'' machines that some inventors have claimed at various times to have produced
newman and his attorney, john flannery, contended that jackson had improperly rejected the findings of court-appointed expert william schuyler, himself a former patent commissioner, that the machine worked as newman claimed it did
we have an expert ... who agrees with our view and we have a district court judge's opinion that differs with that,'' flannery said. ``so i think we will have to go the court of appeals for a tie-breaker.''
ruling on the five-year-old lawsuit, jackson said newman had only produced evidence to support his theory that was ``anecdotal and largely qualitative rather than quantified measured data.''
nor had newman, the judge found, rebutted the findings of the national bureau of standards, which tested the machine and concluded: ``the device did not deliver more energy than it used.''
newman, who has demonstrated his motor to a congressional subcommittee, claims that it converts matter he calls ``gyroscopic particles'' into energy
but the judge found that ``aside from newman's own somewhat metaphysical writings which appear at multiple points throughout his patent application there is no evidence whatsoever ... from which to find the existence of such `gyroscopic particles,' their observable (or measurable) `release' or `reaction' within the device.''
newman's machine resembles an ordinary electric motor except for a large coil of wire used to create an electromagnetic field when powered by batteries
at best,'' the judge said, ``the evidence supports a finding that newman's device will operate, for reasons not explained at all but must be merely guessed at, on dry cell batteries for longer periods of time than others which may or may not be comparable
but such a device is not the one for which newman seeks a patent,'' jackson said in his 20-page opinion. ``he is unequivocal in his insistence that the device he has tendered as patent-worthy produces more useable energy output than the energy required to power it. the court finds the evidence of it insufficient.''
the bitterly fought lawsuit included a 1986 episode when flannery was cited for contempt of court for pressing newman's demand that jackson disqualify himself from the case because he was biased
i have had just about enough of your insolence in this case,'' the judge told flannery. jackson later withdrew the contempt citation
government officials and businessmen say charges they enriched themselves on u.s. foreign aid are false or misleading and were timed to embarrass costa rica before congress voted on rebel funding
u.s. embassy sources and several other businessmen say some of the accusations are true
local officials are reacting angrily to a u.s. state department memo which charges that u.s. embassy officials in costa rica misspent and mismanaged millions of dollars in foreign aid, including providing college scholarships for children of influential citizens and creating a development agency that largely benefited politicians
a costa rican government spokesman, who agreed to be interviewed only on condition of anonymity, said no formal response was planned until the memo can be clarified
when something like this hits the public, people have the right not only to feel angry but to feel extremely angry,'' he said
the memo said actions by u.s. officials and wealthy and influential costa ricans who helped distribute the aid ``closely approach criminal conduct.''
portions of the memo first were disclosed in a story written by the scripps howard news service and published in several u.s. newspapers in late january, just two weeks before congress voted on an aid proposal for rebels fighting nicaragua's leftist sandinista government. the associated press carried a lengthy story on the memo last week from washington
congress rejected the contra rebel proposal in early february. but costa rican officials say release of the memo before the vote was designed to muddy the image of the country and its president, oscar arias, who has been an influential opponent of the reagan administration's contra policy
arias won the nobel peace prize last fall for a central american peace plan that forbids foreign funding of rebel groups in the region and calls for a negotiated political settlement to the area's conflicts
the peace plan has, at least temporarily, pre-empted the reagan administration policy of using military pressure on the sandinistas
the confidential memo was written oct. 9, 1987, by the state department's inspector general, herbert l. beckington, to alan woods, administrator of the agency for international development, known as aid, that distributes the money
in the memo, beckington claimed the former aid director in costa rica, daniel j. chaij, personally approved loans and grants that benefited some of the country's most prominent business and political figures
most of the alleged activities took place before arias was elected in 1986
after the memo was first published jan. 20, costa rica's ambassador to washington, guido fernandez, questioned ``why confidential reports supplied more than four months ago should be leaked to the press at this particular time.''
costa rica's finance minister, fernando naranjo, told reporters that the story was ``a complete unmitigated lie.''
both fernandez and naranjo were identified as beneficiaries of aid programs
several sources in the costa rican government and private sector say they believe some of the accusations are valid
there was some poor judgment used in how they decided some of these projects,'' said one u.s. embassy source, speaking on condition of anonymity
other officials said parts of the memo were false and written in inflammatory language to make legitimate activities appear illegal or questionable
they said a second audit exonerated many of the people mentioned in the oct. 9 memo, but the audit has not been released
jack harris, a costa rican business executive also named in the memo, said some of the facts in it appear to be true, but were ``mischievously distorted and given sinister and malicious interpretations.''
harris and others said one example is a charge that a small group of costa ricans set up a system by which they were able to evade local taxes on money earned from aid contracts
they said the memo made the practice seem illegal, although it is a legally established tax shelter system in costa rica
it is not done this way in the united states, but in costa rica it is,'' harris said. ``it's a shelter _ legal, decent, upheld by law. there is absolutely nothing wrong with it, but the insinuations made in the memo are insidious.''
legislators in costa rica and the united states are planning investigations into how aid money was used in costa rica. the costa ricans say they also will look into why the critical memo was leaked to the press
the reagan administration and the oil industry have narrowly bested the environmentalists in round 1 of their intense fight over petroleum development in the arctic national wildlife refuge
the administration's victory came wednesday as the senate energy committee voted 10-9 to open the 1.5 million-acre coastal plain to oil rigs, a controversial step that the interior department and big oil have been urging on congress for a year
under the committee's plan, drilling rigs could join the caribou and musk oxen on the refuge's frigid tundra as early as 21 months after enactment of a law repealing the current prohibition against development in the refuge
the issue has become a major battleground. the environmental lobby is trying to protect the fragile ecosystem from any development. the other side says the area's potentially huge reserves could rival those of nearby prudhoe bay, which accounts for about 20 percent of domestic oil production
drilling foes like sen. tim wirth, d-colo., said that even though the committee was readying legislation for the full senate, they think they can hold their ground this year in hope that the next president will oppose development
in fact, wirth said, senate action in 1988 may be academic: ``nothing's going to happen this year in the house _ zero. the interior committee isn't going to bring it up.''
syd butler, conservation vice president of the wilderness society, said that while he was disappointed in the committee action, ``i'm real happy with the division: a 10-9 vote is not a clear mandate for opening anwr.''
the american petroleum institute, the oil industry's lobbying arm, said in a statement that ``the committee has taken a step toward ensuring the future energy security and economic well-being of our country. ... the time has come to proceed with the legislation. we urge the senate and the house to move expeditiously.''
wirth and his allies tried to persuade the committee to defer a decision on drilling until the administration could study the nation's long-term energy needs and formulate a policy to meet them
but interior secretary donald hodel, the point man for the development forces, told the committee in a letter that new oil from the arctic is needed under any scenario, including increased conservation
hodel criticized the direction being taken by the committee as it continues work on the refuge legislation. he objected to proposals for detailed environmental safeguards and a 10-year stretchout in the oil-tract leasing process
hodel was also critical of a decision made two weeks ago by the committee to earmark 80 percent of the federal revenues from refuge oil to conservation and species protection programs, with only 20 percent available for general use
anwr's resources belong to all americans,'' hodel said. ``federal revenues generated by an anwr leasing program should go to the treasury where they can benefit all taxpayers and serve national priorities.''
bob walker, an interior spokesman, said he did not know whether hodel's problems with the bill could lead to a recommendation that it be vetoed. walker said interior officials were pleased by wednesday's vote because ``we're still moving in the general direction we want to go.''
the budget president reagan sent to congress today isn't likely to survive long but it embodies a philosophy of government that he hopes will be a legacy of his administration
it also demonstrates some changes in approach that the president has either embraced or had thrust upon him since he took office more than seven years ago
the budget makes a strong pitch for reagan's long-held position that government should not perform functions which, in his conservative view of things, can be done better by private organizations
it proposes, for instance, the ``complete privatization'' of military housing and construction of waste water treatment plants. it also calls for a new private entity to mediate disputes that now choke the u.s. tax court
in line with his firm belief in an economy governed by market forces, the president reiterates proposals to cut back federal programs that prop up commodity prices and protect farmers' incomes
and, as he so often has, he calls for the elimination of federal programs that he says are unneeded. this time he lists nine of them, ranging from the rural housing insurance fund to discretionary grants for urban mass transit
notable by its absence, however, is the idea, which he put forward in 1982, of abolishing the department of education. instead, the president proposes an increase of $650 million over the current appropriation of $16.2 billion for the department's discretionary programs
adopting arguments of secretary of education william bennett, reagan now says education and training are one of the highest priorities of the federal government
under a compromise worked out with congress, the president agrees to a slowdown in the military buildup that has been a hallmark of his administration. but he pointedly says in his budget message that he wants the full $229.5 billion compromise figure appropriated, declaring, ``i have kept my side of the bargain and trust that congress will keep its side.''
as he enters the twilight of his presidency, reagan has increasingly expressed his commitment, most recently in a speech to conservative political activists last week, to making what has been called the ``reagan revolution'' of restrained government a permanent feature of american life
however that may be, the particulars of his budget blueprint undoubtedly are in for drastic alteration by a congress, controlled in both houses by the opposition party, facing a president whose political clout is weakened as he nears the end of his tenure
in his budget message, the president says that ``the budget process has so degenerated in recent years that the presidential budget is routinely discarded'' after it arrives on capitol hill
what the president calls degeneration many in congress would describe as a healthy assertion of their constitutional power over the purse strings
either way, however, it makes the president's budget more of an outline of goals and philosophy than a map of actual spending for the fiscal year that will begin oct. 1 and last for more than eight months after reagan leaves office
w. dale nelson covers the white house for the associated press. national...,'' correct date pipeline opened in 10th graf, ``the pipeline...,'' correct time frame for 40 atttacks in 13th graf, ``between june...'' subs 2nd graf ``the attacks...'' and 17th graf, ``ecopetrol was...'' to update that pipeline was reopened wednesday. no pickup. ^by tom wells</note>
leftist guerrillas have struck 20 times in the past five weeks at the lifeline of the nation's oil industry _ a 500-mile pipeline that runs through some of the most rugged terrain in colombia
the attacks have raised the question of whether this south american nation will be able to maintain its oil exports
the national liberation army has blown up parts of the pipeline 13 times since jan. 12, temporarily shutting down the line and forcing colombia to suspend its 137,000 barrels a day of oil exports
another seven attacks did not damage the pipeline, according to sources with occidental petroleum co. who asked to remain anonymous for security reasons
the pipeline carries oil from the canon limon field in the northeast state of arauca to puerto covenas on the caribbean coast
the field is owned half by the state oil company ecopetrol and half by occidental and royal dutch shell
canon limon, discovered four years ago by occidental, was one of the world's biggest oil discoveries in a decade. with a billion barrels of reserves, it was hailed as colombia's economic salvation
at the time, the national liberation army, known as the eln, appeared to be a ragtag band of rebels. the series of attacks has shown that the eln has grown considerably in strength and that the army is incapable of defending the pipeline
the bombings have caused 100,000 barrels of oil to be spilled, much of it into rivers and streams
the pipeline was put into service dec. 7, 1986, allowing colombia to export oil for the first time since 1972
the canon limon field is capable of producing 300,000 barrels of oil a day, but ecopetrol initially limited production to 180,000 barrels a day. that limit was increased to 215,000 barrels in december
an ecopetrol source said the limit will be raised to 300,000 barrels a day sometime this year. the source spoke on condition of anonymity because all information about the pipeline is supposed to come from the defense ministry, which refused to comment
between december 1986 and december 1987, there were about 40 dynamite attacks on the pipeline. many bombs didn't go off. the few that exploded did little damage, and the pipeline would be out of service for only a few hours
but between jan. 12 and jan. 29, the eln attacked the pipeline every day. on jan. 12 there were two explosions that caused a spill of 27,200 barrels of oil and forcing ecopetrol to close down the pipeline
the army and president virgilio barco said army patrols along the pipeline would be increased
the line was opened again feb. 5. barely enough pressure had built up to begin full pumping when an attack on feb. 9 destroyed 120 feet of pipeline
ecopetrol was forced to close the pipeline again. it reopened wednesday, and colombia resumed its oil exports, according to a news release issued by the minister of mines, guillermo perry
crews in helicopters have little chance of spotting guerrillas in the dense jungles through which the pipe runs
the rebels initially just tried to blow up pipe, but more recently they have started keying on the line's big valves, which cannot be repaired or replaced quickly
the eln first emerged in 1960, shortly after fidel castro's triumph in cuba. it was organized by a roman catholic priest, camilo torres, who was later killed in a battle with troops in 1966
the army estimates that the eln has fewer than 500 combatants. there are believed to be a total of about 7,000 armed rebels in colombia's five leftist rebel groups
actor david rasche, who plays sledge hammer in the abc-tv comedy series of the same name, told high school drama students that persistence and fate are the keys to acting success
rasche, whose mother-in-law teaches at west albany high school, stopped by the school tuesday and was swarmed by teen-age fans
rasche, 43, plays a macho, trigger-happy police detective in the series, which is a parody of police shows. ``sledge hammer!'' is in its second season
he said he has been plugging away at acting since the first grade, when he played george washington in a school play
i was good. i was very, very good,'' rasche said
a man who actor sean penn accused of intruding on his property and punching him pleaded innocent to misdemeanor charges of prowling and assault
richard barcelo, 20, of chino entered the pleas wednesday in municipal court, where judge lawrence mira ordered him to return march 8 for pretrial motions
penn and his wife, pop singer madonna, told authorities they discovered barcelo and two 17-year-old boys at their estate when they returned home from the grocery store shortly after midnight jan. 20
penn, who plays a policeman in his latest movie, ``colors,'' subdued barcelo by striking him on the head with a newly purchased bottle of salad dressing, sheriff's deputies said
the star of ``bad boys'' and ``the falcon and the snowman'' has had several brushes with the law for scuffles in bars and on movie sets, but reported being the victim twice last month. an anaheim man allegedly crashed his pickup truck through penn's gate jan. 7, and is scheduled for a feb. 24 court appearance
prosecutors withheld details of the two juveniles' court cases
actor matthew broderick, who had faced up to five years in prison for his role in a fatal car crash in northern ireland, defended a magistrate's decision to fine him for the lesser charge of careless driving
i'm glad the court decided that there was no basis for charging me with reckless driving,'' broderick said in a statement wednesday. ``there was never any evidence for that charge. they also determined that the details of the accident will never be fully known. however it happened, it was a tragedy.''
john gallagher, whose wife, anna, 28, and mother-in-law, margaret doherty, 60, were killed in the crash aug. 5, denounced the decision reached monday in enniskillen, which amounted to a $175 fine
publicist wendy morris said broderick, who was allowed to remain in new york while his lawyer entered his guilty plea, planned to try to speak with the victims' family, ``but he doesn't think now is the right time.''
the 25-year-old star of the movies ``war games'' and ``ferris bueller's day off'' suffered a broken leg in the collision. his passenger, actress jennifer grey, was not hurt
president truman's hometown is honoring cbs news correspondent charles kuralt with the 1988 truman public service award because of the attention he brings to traditional values, the mayor said
we felt charles kuralt focuses our attention on the pulse of america that president truman really represented, and on the average joe or mary jones living on the farm or in a small town, living out those values that president truman has come to be recognized for,'' mayor barbara potts said wednesday
kuralt, known for his ``on the road'' reports and as host of ``cbs sunday morning,'' will be honored may 6 at the truman library, potts announced
special recognition awards will go to sue gentry, a reporter who covered truman for the examiner newspaper here, former independence mayor robert weatherford and ben zobrist, director of the truman library since 1971
prince charles took the oath of allegiance to his mother, queen elizabeth ii, in the house of lords, a formality allowing him to speak if he wants to during the current session of parliament
apart from state occasions, wednesday was the first time charles had gone before the unelected upper house since 1975, when he spoke about voluntary service. members of the royal family are automatically in the house of lords but rarely go there and traditionally never speak on politically sensitive topics
after swearing his allegiance, the crown prince signed the test roll, confirming he accepts the queen as head of the church of england
the 50 or so lords and ladies present of the 1,200 entitled to sit there cried, ``hear, hear,'' _ the customary words of approval _ as the popular prince shook hands with the lord chancellor, lord mackay of clashfern, and left the chamber
economist john kenneth galbraith and mexican poet octavio paz were among those receiving the encyclopaedia britannica's annual award for communicating knowledge for the benefit of mankind
also tapped wednesday for the award were australian historian geoffrey blainey, canadian author jane jacobs and chinese anthropologist and sociologist fei xiaotong
each will receive a $25,000 cash award, a gold medal and an allowance to travel to a forum where they will be invited to speak, the encyclopedia publisher said
thirty employers, including some of the nation's biggest corporations, on wednesday endorsed a 10-point ``bill of rights'' on aids in the workplace formulated by a citizens group
the companies committed themselves to taking an active role in educating their employees about aids and protecting job rights of aids sufferers
among the principles formulated by the citizens commission on aids for new york city and northern new jersey is a statement that people with aids or its virus ``are entitled to the same rights and opportunities as people with other serious or life-threatening illnesses.''
in addition, it states, aids victims ``do not pose a risk of transmission of the virus to coworkers through ordinary workplace contact.''
another principle is that ``employers should provide employees with sensitive, accurate and up-to-date education about risk reduction in their personal lives.''
requiring workers or job applicants take blood tests for the virus is specifically rejected, as is divulging medical information about an employee
ibm was the first company to endorse the principles, said john zucotti, co-chairman of the commission
others endorsing the principles included at&amp;t, time inc., johnson &amp; johnson, warner-lambert, itt, dow jones, chemical bank, the city of new york and the teachers' unions of new york city and newark, n.j
also, united jersey banks, shubert organization, times mirror co., atlantic industries; ms., atlantic, sassy and u.s. news and world report magazines; rubenstein associates, rockefeller brothers fund and the national urban league
also, the girl scouts, salvation army, red cross of greater new york, new jersey a. philip randolph institute, lambda legal defense and education fund, fund for the city of new york, wildcat services and archie comics
zucotti said the commission would pursue other employers and umbrella organizations of business and labor to endorse the principles
a number of businesses have asked for time to study the principles and a few rejected them, on grounds they might open themselves to lawsuits, said zucotti
zucotti declined to identify the rejecting companies, but a commission member, thomas stoddard, executive director of the lambda fund for gay rights, said he thought the companies feared stigma more than lawsuits
state and federal statues prohibit discrimination against people who have aids but can work, so the principles require no more of a company legally than laws already on the books, stoddard said
those companies that have subscribed to these principles have been very courageous,'' said stoddard. ``they have been willing to take the heat because they understand the gravity of the problem. we will continue to have the problem of stigmatization until all companies subscribe to these principles.''
proposing and promoting the principles were the first public act of the 15-member commission, which was established in july and funded by 17 local foundations
zucotti said the commission's mission was to marshal information and mobilize effort to improve care for aids sufferers, promote prevention and education about the fatal disease and address its social impact
a new package of purely ``humanitarian'' aid being drafted by house democrats for nicaragua's contra rebels will continue supplying the resistance at the current rate of about $1.8 million a month
but house speaker jim wright said wednesday that other crucial questions about the aid package, which is scheduled to come to the house floor next week, remain unanswered
unresolved are such difficult issues as how the aid will be delivered, its duration, and what kinds of incentives might be offered to nicaragua's leftist sandinista government to encourage compliance with a regional peace accord
it is taking shape,'' wright, d-texas, said of the proposal. a group of house members, primarily democrats, has been meeting daily to work out details of the bill, which was promised as an alternative to the administration's $36.2 million aid package rejected on feb. 4
in contrast with the administration's package, which included $3.6 million for ammunition and anti-aircraft missiles and millions more for non-lethal military supplies, wright's proposal would be limited to food, clothing and medical supplies and assistance
the $1.8 million monthly figure does not include transportation costs, which currently are costing a like amount each month but could be lower if the aid were delivered by an international, neutral organization such as the red cross
rep. david bonior, d-mich., who is leading the drafting sessions, said the bill also will include a program to aid children injured during the six-year civil war
wright said under consideration as well is a possible lifting of trade sanctions against nicaragua and economic aid to other countries in the region, contingent on fulfillment of promises of democratization made in the five-nation peace agreement
but he emphasized that such moves could be made only with the ``enthusiastic'' backing of the administration, which would be charged with carrying them out. so far, the administration and republican congressional leaders have declined to participate in drafting the legislation
wright said the bill will seek to provide ``balanced incentives'' to encourage both the contras and the sandinistas to work out a cease-fire and live up to the peace agreement signed last aug. 7
both wright and bonior appeared cool to the idea, mentioned earlier by house majority whip tony coelho, d-calif., that the legislation would include a ban or restriction on fund-raising for the contras by private u.s. citizens
i know of no provision contemplated,'' wright said when asked about the issue
meanwhile, a congressional opponent of aid to the contras asked president reagan to strengthen assurances that u.s. government personnel will not again become mired in private fund raising for the rebels as it did in the iran-contra affair
rep. david obey, d-wis., also asked that reagan clarify the tax-exempt status of a fund the contras have established to solicit private contributions from u.s. citizens
last week, white house chief of staff howard h. baker jr. and national security adviser colin l. powell issued a memorandum directing that ``no administration official'' provide aid to private fund-raising efforts for the contras
but because the memorandum was not issued by the president himself and was addressed only to white house and national security council staff members, contra opponents have questioned whether the directive contained an important loophole
obey, chairman of the house appropriations foreign operations subcommittee, noted that federal law prohibits such activity and that all federal officials, including those at the state department and cia, should be covered by the white house prohibition
he also raised questions about the contras' fund-raising arm, the nicaraguan resistance education foundation. contributions to the fund are tax-deductible
obey noted that the fund had been created last october simply by changing the name of another organization that already had tax-exempt status, the john davis lodge foundation for international studies
the soviet union is unlikely to agree on a date for the next superpower summit meeting until the senate ratifies a treaty to ban intermediate-range nuclear missiles, a senior u.s. official says
i really think the soviets probably would wait for the inf ratification,'' the official said wednesday. ``don't ask me why. but i just sense it's going to be important to them to have this process that was started by the signature at the washington summit completed.''
the official, whose identity was shielded under briefing rules at the state department, referred to the intermediate-range nuclear forces treaty to scrap about 2,700 u.s. and soviet nuclear missiles
it was signed by president reagan and general secretary mikhail s. gorbachev in december and is before the senate for ratification
in the meantime, secretary of state george p. shultz will hold talks in moscow next sunday and monday on preparations for their next summit meeting. it is to be held in moscow, possibly in late may or early june
the centerpiece of that fourth and final meeting between the two leaders is supposed to be a more ambitious treaty to reduce by 30 percent to 50 percent the overall u.s. and soviet arsenals of long-range bombers, land-based missiles and submarines
but the official said negotiations in geneva had slowed down for several reasons. the soviets are trying to restrict reagan's strategic defense initiative, the program to develop a space-based shield against ballistic missiles, and the united states is resisting various restrictions on cruise missiles
shultz will meet on sunday with foreign minister eduard a. shevardnadze and on monday with gorbachev and shevardnadze. he is due to fly to brussels on tuesday to brief the north atlantic treaty organization allies on the results
meanwhile, charles e. redman, the state department spokesman, announced shultz also will meet with andrei d. sakharov, the noted soviet dissident, while he is in moscow
human rights is high on his agenda,'' redman said wednesday. ``mr. sakharov obviously is a person well-placed to talk about these kind of issues.''
assistant secretary of state rozanne l. ridgway, in a u.s. government telecast to western europe, said human rights has ``pride of place'' in shultz' plans
other key items are the slowed-down negotations in geneva to produce a new arms control agreement, the prospective withdrawal of 120,000 soviet troops from afghanistan and u.s. efforts to arrange arab-israeli negotiations
sakharov, winner of the nobel peace prize in 1975, is a physicist who helped develop the soviet hydrogen bomb in the 1950s. his subsequent outspoken support for human rights and opposition to the afghanistan invasion led to his banishment to the closed city of gorky in 1980
he remained there until 1986, when he was permitted to return to moscow amid gorbachev's liberalization policy
stories abound that prostitutes frequently visit ice fishing houses on mille lacs lake, where as many as 10,000 men gather on winter weekends, but authorities say they may just be fish stories
personally, i've never run across the hooks, but i remember they were supposed to be working the lake back in the '60s,'' said jerry anderson, a fishing guide on the large central minnesota lake whose shoreline includes this town
at least it makes a nice story. january and february can be a real boring time of year up here,'' he said
but jim forbord, a state conservation officer who has worked the lake for nine years, said he wouldn't be surprised if truth is found in one of two theories: prostitutes peddle their wares fishhouse door to fishhouse door, or they do business in their own fishhouse
when you check houses you run into everything under the sun,'' he said. ``you don't know if they're girlfriends, boyfriends, wives or what. sometimes i have to let them pull on a blanket before i come in.''
authorities say no arrests or prosecutions on prostitution charges have been made in any of the three counties that include parts of the lake
last fall, however, an aitkin county sheriff's deputy investigated a report that two local women were operating as prostitutes on the southeast shore, said sheriff bill sobey. the report seemed credible, but there wasn't enough evidence to make an arrest, he said
i used to always figure it was just talk,'' sobey said. ``i've never had a fishhouse myself, so i've never had a chance to find out.''
he believes authorities would know if prostitutes were active in the area. ``you'd hear something. people talk,'' he said
crow wing county attorney stephen rathke said, ``i'd heard of it for years and i guess i've always assumed it was true because it's so logical. you know, literally thousands of men in these little fish houses.''
this winter, there are nearly 4,000 fish houses on the lake, giving the frozen lake a bigger population than any of the cities on its shore
you've got to realize you get a real rowdy crew out there,'' said anderson. ``there's gambling, seeing who can drink the most. maybe that's how the stories start.''
forbord has his own theory about the stories: ``fishermen like to talk a pretty good brag. when you spend all weekend staring at a bobber, you start thinking about something else to do.''
the nikkei stock average closed at 24,675.36 points, up 245.41 points, on the tokyo stock exchange thursday
a historian on the panel that investigated president kurt waldheim's wartime past said britain or america could have missing records that show whether waldheim was involved in the executions of six british commandos
historian gerald fleming, who is pressing u.s. archivists about the german army records, spoke wednesday, a day after prime minister margaret thatcher ordered a new investigation into waldheim's alleged connection with the executions
the commandos were captured in the balkans in 1944 and interrogated by the german army unit in which waldheim was an intelligence officer
we need to know who signed the interrogations and who initialed them ... the honor of this country is at stake,'' said fleming in an interview
this will give us that final stone in the large mosaic on which the commission labored,'' said fleming, the only british member of the international commission that investigated waldheim
the commission's report, released last week, questioned waldheim's moral integrity, saying he was ``in close proximity'' to nazi atrocities when he served as a lieutenant in the german army during world war ii
the panel left open the question of whether waldheim committed war crimes, but it concluded that waldheim tried to cover up his involvement in the war
it also found that waldheim knew of adolf hitler's orders for the ``merciless extermination'' of captured allied commandos
the austrian government appointed the commission in 1986 after the u.s. justice department banned waldheim from the united states, placing him on a ``watch list'' of undesirable aliens
waldheim has denied any wrongdoing during the war
in vienna, meanwhile, a session of the conservative national leadership was called today to discuss the negative impact of the historians' report
the conservative tabloid kurier today quoted unidentified sources as saying the meeting of people's party leaders would ``reconsider'' its defense of the president
waldheim, who is not a member of the people's party, has enjoyed unqualified support from its senior oficials. but recently several prominent conservative politicians have criticized the president
in britain, mrs. thatcher ordered the commando investigation reopened under pressure from a british legislator, robert rhodes james, who was on waldheim's staff while waldheim was u.n. secretary-general from 1972-82
rhodes james claims the soviet union knew at the end world war ii that yugoslavia accused waldheim of being a war criminal. he also contends that britain and america also may have covered up facts when waldheim became u.n. chief
yugoslavia dropped its charges against waldheim but never has explained why
in the interview, fleming dealt diplomatically with questions about a possible anglo-american cover-up of the commando incident
i incline to the view ... they (the interrogation records) are in the hands of some military authority or government authority over here or in america
if they do exist it would seem extraordinary that they have not come to light up to now,'' he said
fleming said he has had no reply to a letter he sent jan. 23 to robert wolfe, head of the u.s. modern military archives in washington, asking about the interrogation records
fleming, who has written again, said the silence is unusual when contrasted with prompt responses he has received previously
a raiding party of greek partisans and seven british commandos was captured in a small boat off the german-occupied greek island of alimina
one commando divulged military secrets and survived. the rest, who refused to talk, were handed over to ``representatives'' of waldheim's immediate superior, lt. col. herbert warstorff, british foreign office records show
fleming said german military documents of the capture, known as the alimina file, lack records of the second interrogation of the commandos by waldheim's unit, before they faced firing squads
attached to the alimina file was a note scrawled in english saying, ``do not film this sheet. interrogations reports removed because of security classification.''
some of the british foreign office and defense ministry documents about the commandos have been destroyed. the foreign office said the files were shredded in 1978 in routine housecleaning
a 1986 inquiry based on remaining british government records did not link waldheim to the executions
but rhodes james pressed this week for another inquiry following the historical commission's investigations
the role of successive british governments must be examined,'' rhodes james, a member of mrs. thatcher's conservative party, told reporters tuesday. ``there is a consistent pattern of a cover-up.''
a police officer shot and killed a motorist who pulled a gun after a routine traffic stop wednesday night, authorities said
the man, whose name was not released, was taken to baylor university medical center, said sgt. eric webb. hospital officials referred all calls to police
the suspect was pronounced dead later, said a spokeswoman with the dallas medical examiner's office who declined to give her name
the suspect pulled a cocked, semi-automatic weapon with the safety off on the officer and the officer fired,'' said police sgt. earl newsom. ``i don't know exactly what caused him (the suspect) to act this way.''
police said two other men who were in the car were taken into custody, but it was not known if they had been charged
the names of the officers involved also were not released
police have patrolled in pairs since the january shooting of officer john chase who was gunned down by a homeless man after stopping a motorist. origin</head>
anatomically modern humans lived in israel 92,000 years ago, scientists said today in a study that pushes back the earliest known reliable date for the ancient humans by some 50,000 years
the finding supports the hypothesis that anatomically modern humans evolved in africa rather than independently in several places, and weighs against the idea that they descended from neanderthals, scientists said
the study, reported by scientists from france and israel, is ``very important for the study of the human evolution,'' said david pilbeam, anthrolopology professor at harvard university
the work appears in today's issue of the british journal nature
researchers reported that 20 burnt flints found along with ancient human remains in the qafzeh cave in lower galilee were about 92,000 years old, give or take 5,000 years. so the ancient humans lived there that long ago, researchers said
that means some anatomically modern humans occupied southwest asia before neanderthals arrived, a sharp challenge to the view that they evolved from neanderthals, wrote chris stringer of the british museum (natural history) in an editorial accompanying the report
neanderthals lived in europe and asia from about 150,000 or 200,000 years ago until about 35,000 years ago
harvard's pilbeam said the israeli finding more than doubles ``what was previously accepted as a really good age for modern humans,'' which was 35,000 to 40,000 years
eric delson, anthropology professor at lehman college in new york, said some fossils from africa suggests ages of 90,000 years and even older for modern humans, but that the evidence for those dates is not firm
in a telephone interview, delson said the new finding supports the view that modern man arose in africa because it provides an early date for their living near that continent. the theory holds that more than 100,000 years ago, modern humans split into a group that stayed in africa and another that went to europe and asia
the humans in the israeli cave may well have been members of early eurasian stock, different from any living race but near the common ancestor of non-africans, delson said
stringer, in his editorial, said the early date for the israeli population poses some questions, such as why modern humans took another 50,000 years to register their presence in europe and the far east
perhaps the environment to the north was too unsuitable, or the neanderthals too well established, to allow a migration until all that time had elapsed, he said. or perhaps they did migrate earlier, and their fossil remains have yet to be discovered, stringer wrote. 4th graf pvs bgng, a currency ...</note>
the u.s. dollar drifted lower against the japanese yen in trading in tokyo thursday, while stock prices rallied
the dollar's close matched its opening of 130.00 yen, but it was 0.41 yen lower than wednesday's closing of 130.41
on the tokyo stock exchange, the nikkei stock average of 225 selected issues, a 84.29 point-winner wednesday, climbed 245.41 points, or 1 percent, to close at 24,675.36
a currency dealer at a major commercial bank in tokyo, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the dollar ``was drifting lower, despite no major negative news.''
the dollar's current level against the yen is within 0.2 yen of the 129.85 yen-level where it was trading early last friday, before the release of u.s. trade figures which showed a decline in december's trade deficit
the modest rally on the stock exchange was fueled by strong interest in japanese consumption-related issues, said an analyst at wako securities, speaking on condition of anonymity
what stands out particularly is strong interest in financials, such as banks and trusts, and ... stronger demand for supermarkets and department stores resulting from growing spending for consumption,'' he said
despite the dollar's gradual slide since the release of the trade figures last friday, japanese blue chips were generally strong, and some traders said they believed the ministry of finance and major japanese brokerages were cooperating to maintain share prices
trading was thin. volume at the end of the morning session was estimated at 350 million shares, down from 400 million shares during wednesday's morning session
here is a complete list of nominees for the 60th annual academy awards announced wednesday
1. picture: ``broadcast news,'' ``fatal attraction,'' ``hope and glory,'' ``the last emperor,'' ``moonstruck.''
2. actor: michael douglas, ``wall street''; william hurt, ``broadcast news''; marcello mastroianni, ``dark eyes''; jack nicholson, ``ironweed''; robin williams, ``good morning vietnam.''
3. actress: cher, ``moonstruck''; glenn close, ``fatal attraction''; holly hunter, ``broadcast news''; sally kirkland, ``anna''; meryl streep, ``ironweed.''
4. supporting actor: albert brooks, ``broadcast news''; sean connery, ``the untouchables''; morgan freeman, ``street smart''; vincent gardenia, ``moonstruck''; denzel washington, ``cry freedom.''
5. supporting actress: norma aleandro, ``gaby-a true story''; anne archer, ``fatal attraction''; olympia dukakis, ``moonstruck''; anne ramsey, ``throw mama from the train''; ann sothern, ``the whales of august.''
6. director: adrian lyne, ``fatal attraction''; john boorman, ``hope and glory''; bernardo bertolucci, ``the last emperor''; lasse hallstrom, ``my life as a dog''; norman jewison, ``moonstruck.''
7. original screenplay: louis malle, ``au revoir les enfants''; james l. brooks, ``broadcast news''; john patrick shanley, ``moonstruck''; and woody allen, ``radio days''; john boorman, ``hope and glory.''
8. adapted screenplay: tony huston, ``the dead''; james dearden, ``fatal attraction''; stanley kubrick, michael herr and gustav hasford, ``full metal jacket''; mark peploe and bernardo bertolucci, ``the last emperor''; lasse hallstrom, reidar jonsson, brasse brannstrom and per berglund, ``my life as a dog.''
9. best foreign film: ``au revoir les enfants,'' france; ``babette's feast,'' denmark; ``course completed,'' spain; ``the family,'' italy; ``pathfinder,'' norway
10. art direction: art direction: norman reynolds, set direction: harry cordwell, ``empire of the sun''; art direction: anthony pratt, set direction: joan woollard, ``hope and glory''; art direction: ferdinando scarfiotti, set direction: bruno cesari, ``the last emperor''; art direction: santo loquasto, set direction: carol joffe, les bloom and george detitta, jr., ``radio days''; art direction: patrizia von brandenstein, set direction: hal gausman, ``the untouchables.''
11. cinematography: michael ballhaus, ``broadcast news''; allen daviau, ``empire of the sun''; phillippe rousselot, ``hope and glory''; vittorio storaro, ``the last emperor''; haskell wexler, ``matewan.''
12. costume design: dorothy jeakins, ``the dead''; bob ringwood, ``empire of the sun''; james acheson, ``the last emperor''; jenny beavan and john bright, ``maurice''; marilyn vance-straker, ``the untouchables.''
13. documentary feature: callie crossley and james a. devinney, ``eyes on the prize: america's civil rights years@bridge to freedom 1965''; john junkerman and john dower, ``hellfire: a journey from hiroshima''; robert stone, ``radio bikini''; barbara herbich and cyril christo, ``a stitch for time''; aviva slesin, ``the ten-year lunch: the wit and legend of the algonquin round table.''
14. documentary short subject: deborah dickson, ``frances steloff: memoirs of a bookseller''; university of southern california, ``in the wee wee hours...''; megan williams ``language sas it all''; lynn mueller, ``silver into gold''; sue marx and pamela conn, ``young at heart.''
15. film editing: richard marks, ``broadcast news''; michael kahn, ``empire of the sun''; michael kahn and peter e. berger, ``fatal attraction''; gabriella cristiani, ``the last emperor''; frank j. urioste, ``robocop.''
16. makeup: bob laden, ``happy new year''; rick baker, ``harry and the hendersons.''
17. music original score: george fenton and john gwangwa, ``cry freedom''; john t. williams, ``empire of the sun''; ryuichi sakamoto, david byrne and cong su, ``the last emperor''; ennio morricone, ``the untouchables''; john t. williams, ``the witches of eastwick.''
18. music original song: george fenton and jonas gwangwa, ``cry freedom,'' ``cry freedom''; music: franke previte, john denicola, donald markowitz, lyric: franke previte, ``(i've had) the time of my life,'' ``dirty dancing''; albert hammond and diane warren, ``nothing's gonna stop us now,'' ``mannequin''; music: harold faltermeyer, keith forsey, lyric: harold faltermeyer, keith forsey, bob seger, ``shakedown,'' ``beverly hills cop ii''; willy deville, ``storybook love,'' from ``the princess bride.''
19. animated short film: eunice macaulay, ``george and rosemary''; frederic back, ``the man who planted trees''; bill plymton, ``your face.''
20. live action short film: ann wingate, ``making waves''; jonathan sanger and jana sue memel, ``ray's male heterosexual dance hall''; robert a. katz, ``shoeshine.''
21. sound: robert knuson, don digirolamo, john boyle and tony dawe, ``empire of the sun''; bill rowe and ivan sharrock, ``the last emperor''; les fresholtz, dick alexander, vern poole, and bill nelson, ``lethal weapon''; michael j. kohut, carlos delarios, aaaron rochin and robert wald, ``robocop''; wayne artman, tome beckert, tom dahl and art rochester, ``the witches of eastwick.''
22. visual effects: dennis muren, william george, harley jessup and kenneth smith, ``innerspace''; joel hynek, robert m. greenberg, richard greenberg and stan winston, ``predator.'' fault</head>
rail labor unions say the federal railroad administration is focusing too much attention on drug testing of train operators and too little on enforcing regulations covering faulty equipment
the federal railroad administrator countered that the criticism was ``an obvious diversionary tactic'' to shift attention from the drug-use issue
at a news conference wednesday, the railway labor executives' association, a rail labor umbrella group, said the focus on drug testing and alleged drug use by rail employees has ``clouded a much deeper problem surrounding rail safety - lax, ineffective enforcement of existing rail safety laws.''
james kennedy, the labor group's executive secretary, said that the federal railroad agency's failure to level fines against railroads for defective equipment, defective track and its failure to enforce other rail safety laws has resulted in an ``enforcement gap'' in the industry
clearly the (rail) carriers have no incentive to comply with safety laws or regulations. ... there is no incentive for preventing action by the carriers to avoid hazardous conditions for employees and the public,'' said kennedy
the issue of drug use by rail employees came to the fore last year when 16 people died in a collision near baltimore between an amtrak passenger train and a string of three conrail diesel engines
on tuesday, conrail engineer ricky l. gates pleaded guilty to manslaughter and admitted he had been smoking marijuana shortly before the accident. tests also showed the presence of marijuana in a conrail brakeman
last week, a federal appeals court in san francisco declared the federal drug testing requirement after railroad accidents unconstititutional. the ruling, hailed by the rail unions, is being appealed by government
the labor group said that in 1986 fra inspectors found 314,886 safety defects at the nation's railroads, but that only 6,497 resulted in safety violation reports being filed and even fewer resulted in civil penalties against the railroads
federal railroad administrator john riley called the statistics misleading because many of the safety defects were minor. ``we prosecuted more than 99 percent of all violations that our inspectors sent to us for prosecution,'' he said
riley said that while accidents due to track, equipment, signals or hardware have declined by more than 75 percent in the past decade, the accidents involving human performance have ``climbed dramatically.'' he said virtually all the fatal accidents last year were linked to human performance
those numbers speak for themselves,'' continued riley. he called the criticsm from rail labor ``an obvious diversionary tactic (and) ... an attempt to erect a fig leaf to distract attention away'' from the drug issue and attempts by his agency to get enforcement authority over rail workers
congress is considering legislation that would allow the fra to take action directly against a railroad employee instead of only that person's employer as now is the case
kennedy said the unions no longer oppose the fra getting such authority, but that in return a train engineer should be able to refuse to take a train from a rail yard if he has safety concerns
here is a list of some the worst mass murders in recent u.s. history:
july 18, 1984 _ twenty-one people are fatally shot in a mcdonald's restaurant in san ysidro, calif., by james oliver huberty, an out-of-work security guard. huberty himself is killed by a police sharpshooter
december 1987 _ sixteen people, including 14 members of one family, are killed. the mass slaying is discovered after r. gene simmons sr. is arrested dec. 28 in the killings of two people in russellville, ark. a search of his home near dover uncovers the remains of 14 family members, who authorities say were killed by simmons just before christmas. he remains at a state hospital in little rock, undergoing psychiatric evaluation
aug. 1, 1966 _ sixteen people are killed in austin, texas, by charles whitman. most are hit by sniper fire after he climbs to the top of a campus tower at the university of texas. whitman is killed by police
aug. 20, 1986 _ fourteen people are shot to death at a post office in edmond, okla., by pat sherrill, 44, a postal worker who authorities say was about to be fired. after police sharpshooters arrive, sherrill kills himself
feb. 19, 1983 _ thirteen people are fatally shot in the head during a robbery at a gambling club in seattle's chinatown section. willie mak and benjamin ng are later convicted of murder
sept. 5, 1949 _ thirteen people are fatally shot in 12 minutes in camden, n.j. howard unruh, who told police, ``i'd have killed a thousand if i'd had enough bullets,'' was found insane and committed to a mental institution
sept. 25, 1982 _ twelve people, including five children, are killed in wilkes-barre and jenkins township, pa. george banks, 43, is later convicted on 12 counts of murder and sentenced to death
march 30, 1975 _ eleven people, including eight children, are killed at a family gathering in hamilton, ohio, on easter sunday. a relative, james ruppert, is convicted of two killings and found innocent by reason of insanity in nine others
april 15, 1984 _ ten people, including eight children, are killed in a brooklyn, n.y., apartment on palm sunday. christopher thomas is convicted of first-degree manslaughter, the judge citing ``extreme emotional disturbance.''
july 14, 1966 _ eight student nurses are stabbed or strangled in a chicago dormitory. richard speck, 24, is convicted of murder
feb. 15, 1988 _ seven people are killed and five others are wounded at esl corp., a silicon valley defense contractor. a former employee, richard wade farley, 39, of san jose, calif., is arrested and held at the santa clara county jail. authorities said he was fired for harassing a woman employee. the woman was among those injured
sept. 25, 1987 _ seven family members, four of them children, are shot to death on two elkland, mo., farms. accused killer john schnick, who police say tried to divert blame for the killings to his 14-year-old nephew, one of the victims, has pleaded innocent to seven charges of first degree murder but has not yet been tried
the government and manufacturers of all-terrain vehicles are taking about three extra weeks to work out details of an agreement settling a lawsuit over the safety of the off-road machines
james lacy, general counsel of the consumer product safety commission, said wednesday that the court has been asked to extend the effective date of the agreement to march 7
everything is moving along fine, we just needed additional time to work out technicalities,'' lacy said
announced dec. 30, the agreement was originally scheduled to take effect after 45 days, the middle of this month
the agreement was worked out by the commission, the justice department and the makers of atvs, principally honda, yamaha, suzuki and kawasaki
it calls for an end to sales of three-wheel atvs, those most often blamed for the accidents which have claimed more than 900 lives and 7,000 injuries in the last five years. manufacturers are switching to four-wheel versions of the machines
in addition the agreement would provide for free safety training for riders, improved warning labels on machines and for the makers to refrain from marketing to people aged 16 and under
consumer groups have been critical of the settlement, contending that the three-wheeled atv's should have been recalled for safety reasons
a top pakistani official told secretary of state george p. shultz his government attaches high priority to an afghan peace settlement that includes replacement of the existing soviet-backed regime in kabul
in a meeting wednesday with shultz, zain noorani said peace and stability can return to afghanistan if a proposed soviet troop withdrawal is accompanied by the creation of an interim government that includes ``all component parties'' in afghanistan, including rebel forces
the meeting took place against a background of shultz's visit to the soviet union early next week to discuss moscow's plan for the withdrawal, under certain conditions, of soviet troops from afghanistan starting may 15
noorani, minister of state for foreign affairs, said there are a ``lot of similarities'' in the pakistani and american positions on afghanistan
but in their past statements, the two sides have indicated a difference of priorities
the united states has emphasized the need for an early withdrawal of soviet forces. pakistan has stressed the importance of an arrangement that will include both a soviet withdrawal and the safe return of 3 million pakistan-based afghan refugees. this stand was reiterated wednesday by noorani in his comments to reporters
pakistan's insistence on the creation of a transition government in kabul has drawn criticism from the soviet union, which has accused pakistan of obstructing an end to the war
noorani said the united states is ``not averse to the idea'' of establishing an interim government
his visit is part of a flurry of diplomatic activity since soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev announced his plan last week for the withdrawal of the estimated 115,000 soviet troops
he said that moscow is prepared to start the pullout may 15 if pakistan and afghanistan agree to a united nations-sponsored agreement by march 15. the withdrawal would be phased over 10 months
afghan and pakistani authorities are scheduled to resume their talks, through u.n. mediators, on march 2 in geneva
i'm confident that given a few days one way or the other, it would be possible to have an agreement and an interim government both by the middle of march or the end of march,'' noorani said
pakistan is under heavy pressure to agree to gorbachev's proposal. a pakistani rejection could leave it vulnerable to charges that it blocked the most promising initiative for the withdrawal of soviet forces since they were sent to afghanistan in december 1979
but an afghan guerrilla leader, gulbaddin hekmatyar, said wednesday it would be a ``historic blunder'' for pakistan to sign an agreement to end the civil war if the present government in kabul is not replaced
a house-passed bill that would allow active-duty military personnel to sue the federal government for medical or dental malpractice is heading for an uncertain fate in the senate
the measure, approved 312-61 by the house on wednesday, is opposed by the reagan administration which says it would limit a longstanding supreme court doctrine that the government is not liable for service-related injuries
the house approved a virtually identical bill by a 317-90 vote in 1985, but the senate never acted on the measure
the non-partisan congressional budget office estimates that the bill would cost the government about $25 million a year if it passes congress. the government paid about $50 million in malpractice settlements in fiscal 1986 to military dependents and retirees
the latest bill, sponsored by rep. barney frank, d-mass., was passed by the house after voice votes approving a $300,000 ceiling on government liability and rejecting a proposal to make the bill's provisions retroactive to jan. 1, 1986
the house bill would cover deaths or injuries resulting from malpractice at permanent military hospitals, but would exclude treatment at field hospitals or hospital ships and claims arising from combat
the measure also would prohibit claims for mental or emotional disabilities unless they resulted from a physical injury, and would bar lawsuits for damage to a military person's status or duty assignment as a result of negligent faulty diagnosis or malpractice
although active-duty servicemen represent about one-third of those treated at military hospitals, they are the only patients who cannot sue the government for medical malpractice
the federal government generally is immune from being sued unless it gives its consent. under a 1946 law, the government can be sued for acts of negligence by its employees while on official duty, but the same law protects the government from legal claims stemming from wartime combat operations
the supreme court ruled in 1950 that the law bars active-duty military personnel _ but not their dependents or military retirees _ from suing the federal government for damages arising from government action or inaction
the chevy nova or chrysler colt hatchback need not take a back seat to the jaguar or maserati when it comes to protecting passengers in that part of the automobile, the government says
the transportation department said wednesday these cars are among the rapidly increasing number of vehicles with rear-seat shoulder harnesses as standard equipment beginning with the 1988 model year. within two years virtually all cars will have the improved safety belts, the department said
the department, under criticism from some auto safety advocates for not requiring shoulder harnesses for rear-seat passengers, released a survey wednesday of manufacturers showing their plans for installing the equipment
the push to make shoulder belts available in the rear gained widespread attention last year after the national transportation safety board suggested that in some accidents lap-only belts may harm rear-seat occupants. momentum was added by a series of successful lawsuits
the department said a proposed regulation to require rear-seat harnesses in all cars is still under review
twenty-four of the 29 manufacturers listed reported that they had the rear-seat shoulder belts in all or some of their cars this model year. the exceptions were the ferrari, isuzu, subaru, suzuki and yugo automobiles. isuzu provides them as an option on 1988 models
general motors corp. reported it has the rear-seat shoulder belts as standard equipment on 12 car models this year ranging from the compact chevrolet nova to three types of cadillac models. it will put them in all domestic cars next model year, according to gm spokesman bill noack
the ford motor co., which has the belts in its lincoln continental, merkur and taurus@sable cars this year, will have it in nearly half its cars in the 1989 model year, said ford spokesman winston leavell
chrysler corp. plans to have the shoulder belts in all its cars by the 1990 model year, but has them only in the colt vista, colt hatchback and eagle medallion this year
toyota has the rear-seat harnesses in its cressida and camry this year, but offers them as an option in other models. nissan has them only in its maxima this year, but plans them in all models by 1990; honda has them in all honda and acura cars; and mazda has them in the 323, 626, mx-6 and 929 models, according to the department
the rear-seat harnesses also are available this model year in the volkwagen golf, jetta, quantum, and four-door fox; mitsubishi galant and sigma; and all models of the alfa romeo, aston martin, audi, bmw, jaguar, four-seat maserati, mercedes-benz, peugeot, porsche, rolls-royce, sterling and volvo
the gm cars that have the harnesses this year are the buick lesabre and riviera; cadillac eldorado, brougham and seville; chevrolet beretta, corsica and nova; oldsmobile delta 88 and toronado; and the pontaic lemans and bonneville, the department said
the drug enforcement administration says 52 pounds of cocaine taken by police working for panamanian strongman gen. manuel antonio noreiga was destroyed using proper police procedures
david westrate, assistant administrator for operations at dea, defended the arrangement under which the special panamanian police narcotics force took a portion of 752 pounds of cocaine flown from bolivia to the united states by way of panama as part of an undercover investigation
the relationship of dea agents and panamanian authorities is under criticism in congress after noriega's indictment by grand juries in florida on charges of drug trafficking and racketeering
it's our understanding and belief that the cocaine left with the panamanians was appropriately disposed of,'' westrate said wednesday in an interview. ``my understanding is that it subsequently was destroyed in a regular destruction exercise they had there.''
after the panamanians received the 52 pounds in april 1986, the remainder was reloaded onto a dea plane and flown to the united states. it was used as evidence in a federal trial that year in roanoke, va., where 10 people were convicted, including reputed bolivian cocaine dealer gerardo caballero
caballero has since said that noriega set him up as a favor to colombian cocaine lords who wanted him out of their way
the cocaine left in panama was to have been used in a potential prosecution in that country which didn't materialize, said westrate
we do utilize a reverse undercover technique where agents are sellers rather than purchasers,'' said westrate. the 52 pounds of cocaine ``was retained in panama for that purpose.''
under such operations, drug enforcement agents offer drugs to suspected dealers, then confiscate the dealers' cash after making arrests
the dea official said ``it's not unusual'' for countries involved as transit points in the ``controlled movement'' of narcotics to retain portions of the narcotics for use in investigations
during the trial in roanoke, dea agent thomas telles testified under questioning from defense attorney jonathan m. apgar that the agency arranged for the cocaine to be flown from bolivia to panama
telles disputed the notion that the cocaine was a payment for the panamanians' assistance in rounding up caballero and another man convicted in the roanoke case, luis tang-fortaleche
a pioneering health insurance bill requiring most businesses to offer medical plans survived what its sponsor called ``a long, tortuous journey'' to committee approval, with more rough traveling in store
the ``minimum health'' bill, approved 10-6 wednesday by the senate labor and human resources committee, would require coverage for up to 23 million of an estimated 38 million workers and dependents now going without it
this has been a long, tortuous journey,'' committee chairman edward kennedy, d-mass., said at the start of the meeting
kennedy said after the vote that he detected ``a very positive attitude,'' but there were signs that the bill would continue on a rocky path
it heads to the floor facing deep-seated opposition from the business community, the reagan administration and conservative lawmakers. and some prospective supporters were withholding favor until their specific problems with the bill could be resolved
under the bill, employers would have to offer a minimum package including hospital care, doctor care, diagnostic and screening tests, pre-natal and well-baby care and limited mental health treatment. the policies would cap out-of-pocket catastrophic costs at $3,000
coverage would have to be offered to employees working 17.5 hours a week or more, and their dependents
citizen action, a community group operating in two dozen states, called the kennedy measure ``desperately needed'' as more people are forced to accept jobs without health benefits and other workers find their benefits eroding
in an attempt to accommodate employers, the bill temporarily exempts small family farms and permits new firms to phase in coverage over two years. businesses of five or fewer people would have five years to phase in benefits. special regional pools would reduce costs to small businesses
but critics were not mollified
the u.s. chamber of commerce denounced the bill in a statement as ``a cruel hoax'' destined to disappoint those it professes to help
all the committee did was pay lip service to the problem without putting forward a workable or affordable solution,'' said james klein, the group's manager of health care policy
sen. lowell weicker, r-conn., a co-sponsor of the bill, said insurance companies and small business groups helped draft it, and he charged that they had acted in bad faith
when it was all over, they said `thanks a lot for letting us be part of the process, and we're against it,''' weicker said
the congressional budget office estimates new coverage under the kennedy bill would cost $27 billion, with $12 billion of that offset by reductions in administrative costs, charity care and other outlays. cbo also says about 100,000 jobs could be lost but could be offset by growth in the health sector
the cost and scope of the bill, as well as the potential for layoffs and job losses, were criticized by health and human services secretary otis bowen and conservative lawmakers
sen. orrin hatch, r-utah, called it a $30 billion solution to an $8 billion problem and likened it to ``using a sledge hammer to crack an egg.''
bowen, in a letter tuesday to kennedy, said the bill would ``impose an unduly intrusive and centralist solution.'' he recommended sharply focused state action instead
congress plans this year to shorten by half a budget process that in 1987 took an entire year to play out. but while there's a better chance than usual for speedy action, pitfalls remain
congressional leaders pledged last year that deadlines would be met. but the fiscal 1988 budget bills weren't finished until nearly christmas, three months into the fiscal year
this year, there's cause for optimism because of the deficit reduction agreement reached last november between president reagan and congressional leaders
the agreement functions as a budget over the budget. although it lacks the legal force of legislation, both the white house and the democratic leaders in congress say they'll obey its overall targets for military, domestic programs, and foreign aid
i believe that the spirit of bipartisan cooperation between the congress and the administration will carry over from last year's budget summit to this year's budget process,'' said rep. william h. gray iii, d-pa., chairman of the house budget committee
both the house and senate budget committees have scheduled hearings beginning today on reagan's proposals, followed by meetings next month to draft budget proposals of their own
even though reagan's budget was received nearly six weeks late _ due to last year's extended stalemate _ house and senate leaders say congress should meet its april 15 deadline for adopting a budget resolution
the resolution then serves as a guideline for fiscal legislation, mostly in the form of appropriations bills
the process calls for 13 separate bills covering virtually all government operations for the new fiscal year beginning oct. 1. but in the past two years, none have been enacted separately. instead, the president has been sent humongous catchall spending packages. he vowed in his state of the union address never to sign another
house speaker jim wright, d-texas, has announced that the house will try to send all 13 bills to the senate by the end of may. with a promise of speedy consideration in the senate, the speaker said completion of the task before congress' extended labor day recess was the target
that would nearly meet the official deadline of july 30, at least close enough for congressional work
the on-time scenario, however, depends on all sorts of things going right _ not all under congress' control
the deficit-reduction agreement is based on white house estimates which could turn sour if the economy falters. simply obeying the agreement might not bring the fiscal 1989 deficit down to the levels prescribed by the gramm-rudman budget balancing law
in august, the president's office of management and budget is required to assess whether legislation has been enacted to bring the deficit down to within $10 billion of the $136 billion target for fiscal 1989
if not, additional legislation would be required to bring things into line _ or across-the-board spending cuts take effect. neither of those options would be very attractive in an election year, and a renewed struggle could ensue
and while the pact between the white house and congress sets overall targets, cutting up the limited-size pies in both domestic and military accounts could prove difficult. even before the budget arrived, house democrats were attacking administration assertions that more cost-cutting was needed in the medicare program
it is much easier to agree to them in the abstract'' than to agree on the details, says sen. pete v. domenici, r-n.m., senior republican on the senate budget committee
stock prices rallied for the sixth consecutive trading day following an overnight gain on wall street, while the dollar slid against the japanese yen in quiet trading today
on the tokyo stock exchange, the nikkei stock average of 225 selected issues, a 84.29-point gainer on wednesday, added another 245.41 points or 1 percent to close the day at 24,675.36
stabilizing foreign exchange rates and new york's dow jones industrial average, which topped the 2,000-point level, made investors confident,'' said yoshio ogawa of nikko securities. share prices were higher almost across the board in heavy trading. volume totaled 750 million shares
the overall environment of the market is becoming favorable,'' ogawa said, adding that influential big-name stocks, including steels and shipbuildings, were gaining strength
securities issues scored strong gains, while distribution-related shares and construction stocks also rose
on the tokyo foreign exchange market, the dollar closed at 130.00 yen, unchanged from its opening but down 0.41 yen from wednesday's close of 130.41. it traded in a narrow range of 129.97 to 130.16 yen
taeko kobayashi of the bank of tokyo said no major news that he was aware of affected dealing today. if u.s. trade figures for january show improvement when they are released next month, the dollar will stabilize at current levels for some time, she said
democrat richard gephardt, temporarily putting aside the super tuesday primaries of the south less than three weeks away, says he is hoping to pick up a victory sooner in the smaller-delegate states of south dakota and wyoming
after stressing opposition to higher taxes in new hampshire for the past week, gephardt returned wednesday to the familiar theme of attacking what he said were unfair trade practices by japan and other countries as he campaigned in south dakota and wyoming
they take our technology and make a like product, and bring it to the united states and put our workers out of work,'' gephardt said after touring an electronics assembly plant in rapid city, s.d
this administration has been asleep at the switch on trade,'' gephardt said
gephardt flew on to casper for an evening rally with wyoming supporters before flying back to south dakota, which he will have visited on six of the seven days leading up to next tuesday's primary in that state
while his chief rivals were fanning out across the south in advance of the pivotal march 8 primaries throughout the region, gephardt was gambling that he could score a win in south dakota next week and on march 5 in wyoming's caucuses that would send him into super tuesday with the aura of a recent winner
i think i can do well here,'' said gephardt, who won iowa's caucuses 10 days ago and finished a distant second in new hampire's lead-off primary. ``in order to do that, i have to get my message across and see people.''
gephardt strategists said they decided not to compete in three other states holding contests during the next three weeks - vermont and maine, where massachusetts gov. michael dukakis figures to be strong, and minnesota, where dukakis and illinois sen. paul simon are contesting
gephardt has purchased $40,000 worth of television commercials in south dakota, a significant amount in the state of just 700,000 people. gore and dukakis are already on the air here
moreover, a victory in south dakota would be just for show. it's primary is a ``beauty contest'' in which voters will state a preference but no delegates will be awarded with the votes
gephardt's strategists contend they can campaign in south dakota and wyoming and still attract attention in the process in the southern states, where huge numbers of delegates are at stake
more than one-third of the democratic nominating delegates are up for grabs on that day, with primaries in 20 states including every state of the south save south carolina
gephardt was joining the other democratic candidates in dallas for their debate this evening, and also planned trips into arkansas and oklahoma while returning to south dakota nearly every day for a week and to wyoming three days
at the rapid city plant of anderson scientific, which manufactuers satellite receivers for home television viewing, president joe massa told gephardt the company had been forced to lay off nearly its entire work force of 150 people and seen its gross revenues decline from $4.5 million to less than $1 million in three years
he accused japanese competitors of stealing patented technology and dumping their products at a loss to gain u.s. sales
with tv cameras rolling, gephardt toured the factory to underscore his call for tough trade sanctions against unfair foreign competitors and he pointed to the company as an example of imports coming into the united states while asian markets are largely closed to u.s. goods
massa acknowledged, however, that the company's troubles were also due in part to a decline in the home satellite tv business because some major satellite broadcasters have scrambled their signals to prevent home viewers from watching without paying
founder keith anderson told gephardt he supports the missouri congressman's trade sanctions legislation and said his company might fail ``unless you pass your trade bill and we can have a 200 percent duty put on.''
nevada republicans scheduled caucuses and a presidential straw poll this evening, with mainstream gop leaders wondering how many pat robertson supporters will turn out
the non-binding straw poll is first of its kind for the state's republicans and the first in the west this election year
republican state chairwoman sally vitkus-mckinney said she wouldn't predict a winner in the nevada polling, adding that backers of george bush, bob dole, jack kemp and robertson all had been working hard to get supporters of their candidates to the caucuses
ms. vitkus-mckinney said she has heard reports that backers of robertson, a former television evangelist, would try to pack the caucuses, expected to draw several thousand of about 123,000 republicans registered to vote in nevada
organizing drives by robertson backers have proven highly successful in several states. robertson finished a surprisingly strong second in last week's iowa caucuses, and his supporters in hawaii nearly doubled the ranks of registered republicans in advance of a straw poll in the state
steve wark, state coordinator for robertson, denied his group was involved in any caucus-packing, adding that his coordinating efforts were no different than those of coordinators for other candidates
we're probably the only campaign that isn't packing,'' added wark. ``the others are. that's their strategy.''
national gop chairman frank fahrenkopf jr., a former reno lawyer, downplayed the significance of the nevada presidential straw polling, saying he didn't think it would indicate presidential preferences of republicans in the west
it focuses all the attention on who cranks out the most people and who gets the most people to the caucuses, which really may not be representative of the entire republican party of any particular state,'' said fahrenkopf
but fahrenkopf also said the winner of the straw poll ``will be trumpeting it.'' he said the top vote-getters can use the results in their money-raising efforts and to generate more support for their races in advance of the march 8 ``super tuesday'' primary balloting around the nation
ms. vitkus-mckinney, who pushed for the straw poll, said the polling has ``brought a lot of excitement to politics here in nevada'' and will bring out four or five times the number of people who usually attend gop caucuses
the straw poll was developed last summer, before former nevada sen. paul laxalt announced in september that he wouldn't seek the gop presidential nomination. he would have been the probable nevada poll winner had he stayed in the running, ms. vitkus-mckinney said
she also said the straw poll results will reflect views of republicans in many states in the west, adding, ``we normally vote for the person and we are a conservative state. the results will be used by the winner for momentum going into super tuesday.''
the chairwoman also said steps are being taken to guard against any caucus participation by people who aren't properly registered. she said anyone who votes illegally could be subject to later prosecution
this is our first go at this, so we're trying to cover any loopholes,'' she said. ``if they lie, it's a gross misdemeanor.''
the nation's labor leaders are making like a duck this year in presidential politics _ calm on the surface and paddling furiously underneath to position themselves appropriately with whomever emerges as the democratic nominee
delegate slates in the eight states whose filing deadlines have expired show sen. paul simon of illinois, massachusetts gov. micahel dukakis and rep. richard gephardt of missouri all sharing close to an equal number of union political activists wanting to get to the democratic national convention on their tickets
jesse jackson is a close fourth, outpacing sen. albert gore in all eight states, including alablama and georgia, which border on gore's home turf of tennessee
afl-cio president lane kirkland, winding up the afl-cio's annual winter meeting today, said the 14.3-million-member labor federation is no closer now to making a presidential endorsement than it was a year ago when all of the democratic candidates but gore and dukakis were here appealing for union support
the essential criteria is the same, at least a two-thirds consensus,'' he said. ``but i'm not going to force it, and i'm not going to invent it.''
william wynn, president of the united food and commercial workers union, the afl-cio's third largest with 1 million members, doubts there will be an endorsement
we can't change the fact that no individual has emerged as a favorite,'' he said. ``our iowa locals got together and endorsed dukakis, but it wasn't a very strong endorsement. i would bet that jesse jackson got a lot of ufcw votes in iowa.''
the afl-cio's early endorsement of walter mondale in 1984 helped save his campaign after he lost the new hampshire primary that year to then sen. gary hart of colorado. but it also enabled mondale's opponents to tag labor as a ``special interest'' and created a backlash among many union members
exit polls showed only betwen 53 and 57 percent of voters from union households pulling the lever for mondale in the general election _ far short of the two-thirds majority support that the afl-cio claimed that its endorsement represented. union leaders here are intent on avoiding a repeat of that
we're damned if we do and damned if we don't,'' said richard kilroy, president of the transporation communications union and head of a coalition of 15 rail unions
a top afl-cio political official also doubts that the federation will make an endorsement before the democratic convention in atlanta in july
while the federation's policy this time of encouraging union members to become convention delegates for any candidate of their choice is bringing more rank-and-file workers into the process, it also is yielding labor fewer delegates, he said
individual union political chiefs speculate they will eventually get a total of between 10 and 15 of iowa's 52 convention seats based on how well labor delegate candidates fared in last week's iowa caucuses. but one federation official, speaking on the condition of anonymity, said not a single labor representative won a seat in tuesday's new hampshire primary
kirkland is playing it just right, both in '84 and '88,'' said frank greer, a veteran political consultant who is not working for any of the presidential candidates this year
the idea of kirkland and george meany (kirkland's predecessor) was to prevent somebody unacceptable from getting the nomination. all of these guys are acceptable.''
michael dukakis, the winner of the new hampshire democratic primary, set the stage for a debate with his rivals tonight by talking tough on military policy and promising a hard line on terrorism
dukakis traveled south wednesday, touting positions aimed at satisfying more conservative voters. and he tossed a few pointed barbs at tennessee sen. albert gore, who has staked his entire campaign on doing well in the south
the governor was to spend part of today back at the massachusetts statehouse in boston, and travel to dallas for a faceoff with the other democrats
facing the inevitable question about whether he is too liberal, dukakis said at a news conference, ``i don't understand these labels. i'm a guy who's supposed to be a liberal from the northeast. i've balanced nine budgets in a row ... i've cut taxes five times in the last four years. we've cut crime.''
in atlanta, dukakis said he wanted to strengthen the nation's conventional forces and crack down on terrorism. he challenged his democratic rivals to out-do him on ``toughness.''
i don't yield on toughness to al gore in any shape or manner,'' dukakis said
later in florida, dukakis fired another shot across gore's bow when told that gore had accused his opponents of being alienated from the electorate
mr. gore left iowa, virtually left new hampshire,'' dukakis said. ``i don't know who's alienated.''
the governor's message was not entirely hard-line. in the clearwater press conference he stated flatly, ``i'm not going to cut social programs ... i, for one, am not going to balance the budget on the backs of poor people.''
he also said he would keep the defense budget at about its current funding. to cut the federal deficit he said, as he has throughout the campaign, that he would institute an aggressive tax collection program
florida is of critical importance to the dukakis campaign. dukakis said it may offer his best opportunity to win one of the southern states on super tuesday
speaking to about 600 cheering supporters in this gulf coast community, dukakis said, ``if, three weeks from now, with your help, we can do well in florida, we're going to be on our way to the white house.''
the idea that the south is politically different from the rest of the nation is false, dukakis said
there's a mythology about the south as if it's some kind of foreign country. it's nonsense,'' he said
campaign aides say dukakis will focus his economic opportunity message on states with the most electoral votes. and he will drive home his points with the biggest campaign war chest of any of the democratic candidates
former kentucky gov. martha lane collins and former new orleans mayor dutch morial endorsed dukakis in his atlanta appearance
massachusetts, rhode island, washington, florida and maryland are states where dukakis is expected to do well on march 8. others, like alabama, texas, kentucky, south carolina and georgia, won't come to the dukakis fold as easily as new hampshire, his aides acknowledge
boston-based political consultant michael goldman said dukakis campaign sources tell him the governor will spend between $3 million and $4 million in the south
a man who posed for two years as an envoy from malta is actually an italian wanted in his homeland on criminal charges, police said
the man, vicenzo tremoto, 68, was recently arrested in lima after a routine check into the backgrounds of foreigners in peru found he was wanted in italy on tax evasion and criminal conspiracy charges, police col. esparza urbina said. the check also discovered that tremoto's passport had been falsified
tremoto had been posing as a commercial attache for malta, but urbina said the government of that mediterranean nation denied ever having heard of him
the would-be envoy, who also operated a lima bingo parlor, will probably be expelled from peru, urbina told the associated press
west german concerns about plans to modernize nato's short-range nuclear arsenal were being conveyed to secretary of state george p. shultz and congressional leaders today by visiting chancellor helmut kohl
the importance of the weapons with ranges below 315 miles has loomed larger in recent months in planning by the north atlantic treaty organization for its defenses once intermediate-range nuclear forces are eliminated under a treaty with the soviet union
short-range missiles are of particular concern to the bonn government because germany would be the battleground if they are used
the west german government says the upgrading of short-range missiles should be linked to an overall reduction in the number of the weapons and to progress in efforts to reduce the soviet superiority in conventional weapons in central europe
the west germans say nato first must develop an overall arms strategy and iron out differences within the alliance before embarking on missile modernization programs
(west germany) sees no need for an isolated decision on modernizing or not modernizing particular nuclear weapon systems at this point,'' friedhelm ost, chief government spokesman, said this week
kohl arrived wednesday and planned to meet with president reagan on friday
u.s. officials said before kohl's arrival that west germany had gone along with the modernization decision when it was made in 1983 and reaffirmed that support two months ago, and that the soviets benefited from the new concerns
no alliance allows its forces to defend itself... with weapons from yesteryear,'' said rozanne ridgway, assistant secretary of state for european affairs
another u.s. official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said: ``it is unfortunate ... the soviets have managed somehow to jump right into the middle of all this and to suggest that there is somehow disarray in the alliance, a crisis in the alliance on the question of modernization.''
the chancellor also is expected to renew calls for quick senate ratification of the u.s.-soviet agreement to eliminate medium- and shorter-range nuclear missiles _ those that have a range of 315 to 3,000 miles
the accord, which calls for reductions in the next three years, was signed in washington in december
west german officials said kohl also is likely to press for a worldwide ban on chemical weapons
in a related development, government spokesman herbert schmuelling denied news reports that kohl would travel to moscow this fall
a grand jury investigating the iran-contra affair again heard testimony from attorney general edwin meese iii after appearances in recent weeks from other members of meese's staff
meese's appearance wednesday before the grand jury was his seventh. the panel is believed to be focusing on meese's nov. 22-23, 1986, investigation that uncovered the diversion of arms-sale profits to the nicaraguan rebels
the attorney general has refused to comment on his grand jury appearances, but the justice department says he is cooperating with the investigation being conducted by independent counsel lawrence e. walsh and is not a target
the grand jury recently heard testimony by assistant attorney general william bradford reynolds, who found a memo revealing the diversion in national security council files, and assistant attorney general charles j. cooper, another member of the team
former white house chief of staff donald t. regan, who was present when president reagan ordered meese to conduct the investigation and when the attorney general reported his findings, has also testified recently
meese's investigation was criticized by congressional committees that held hearings last summer on the iran-contra affair. the panels faulted meese for not recruiting justice department lawyers with more experience investigating criminal cases and for failing to take notes during interviews with top administration officials after he learned about the diversion
the congressional committees said meese's failure to secure national security council files allowed documents to be shredded by then-national security adviser john m. poindexter, nsc aide lt. col. oliver l. north and others
poindexter resigned and north was fired after meese announced that arms-sale profits had been diverted to the contra rebels
poindexter and north are targets of the walsh investigation. indictments are expected to be returned in the coming weeks
meese also has testified six other times before a different grand jury investigating his financial dealings with a former officer of the scandal-plagued wedtech corp
insurance companies have reported that many aids-related claims were based on physical conditions that existed before the policies went into effect and therefore should be restricted or denied, a survey says
the report released wednesday by the congressional office of technology assessment also determined that screening of health insurance applicants to detect the aids virus is common among insurance companies and health maintenance organizations
the ota report said that while the number of aids cases reported by various companies ranged up to 3,000, most insurers had reimbursed no more than 10 aids-related cases
twelve commercial insurers and three blue cross plans reported that 10 percent or more of their aids-related cases were linked with a ``pre-existing condition'' for aids
two of the 12 commercial insurers reported that more than half their aids-related claims were based on pre-existing conditions. almost half the commercial insurers surveyed _ 21 out of 44 _ reported no pre-existing aids-related cases among their aids claims
forty-five of the 61 companies surveyed reported having aids claims
a pre-existing condition is one that exists before an insurance policy goes into effect and which would cause an ordinarily prudent person to seek diagnosis, care or treatment
the issue is being thrashed out in the courts, the study said
at present, there are several court cases pending relating to what comprises a pre-existing condition for aids and the alleged refusal by insurer(s) to pay for aids-related claims based on a policy's pre-existing condition provision,'' it said
ota said its survey of commercial insurers, blue cross and blue shield plans and hmos found that most insurers ask aids-related questions on applications and require health histories from an applicant's physician
the report said 51, or 86 percent, of the 62 commercial insurers who responded to the survey either screen or plan to screen individual applicants for infection with the aids-causing hiv virus
forty-one already do and another 10 plan to start the tests. eleven of 15 blue cross plans surveyed either screen or plan to screen, as do eight of 16 responding hmos
thirty-one of the 62 commercial carriers said they routinely test applicants for hiv antibodies, while one of the 15 blue cross@blue shield plans did and two of the hmos did
the survey found that there is a difference, however, in how insurers judge someone to be at risk of aids as opposed to being at risk of contracting other diseases. in addition to evaluating medical criteria, 18 of the 62 commercial insurers said they consider sexual orientation in determining risk of contracting aids, as did four of the 16 hmos surveyed
as of jan. 25, 1988, aids had been diagnosed in 51,916 americans, of whom more than half, or 28,965, have died since 1979, according to the centers for disease control in atlanta. no one is known to have recovered from aids
foreigners seeking to remain in the philippines for more than six months will be required to obtain medical certificates showing they are free of the aids virus, the immigration commissioner said
the new regulation, which takes effect april 18, will also apply to the 40,000 u.s. troops, defense department civilians and military dependents stationed here, commissioner miriam defensor-santiago said on wednesday
foreigners who plan to remain less than six months need not produce an aids-free certificate but must do so if they extend their visas
fewer than 100 carriers of the fatal disease have been identified in the philippines. most are women who work in bars and nightclubs located near the u.s.-run clark air base and the subic bay naval base
mrs. defensor-santiago said u.s. and philippine authorities would work out guidelines for implementation of the order for american military personnel
last year, health officials complained that u.s. authorities were slow in responding to requests for information on aids screening of u.s. troops
health officials had asked for guarantees that troops found with the virus would not be posted to the philippines
acquired immune deficiency syndrome is a disease in which a virus attacks the body's immune system, leaving victims susceptible to a wide variety of infections and cancers
aids is most often transmitted through sexual contact. other means of transmission include transfusions of tainted blood or blood products, and the sharing of contaminated hypodermic needles or syringes by drug abusers. aids can also be passed from mother to child at or before birth
the nomination of wendy lee gramm to head the commodity futures trading commission has cleared one senate hurdle
the senate agriculture committee voted 10-0 wednesday to approve the nomination of ms. gramm, 43, who holds a doctorate in economics and currently occupies a senior position in the office of management and budget. the granddaughter of korean immigrants to hawaii, ms. gramm would be the first asian-american woman to hold high executive office in washington. she is married to sen. phil gramm, r-texas
the cftc, because it regulates trading in stock index futures in addition to agriculture and other commodities, has become a highly visible institution since the oct. 19 stock market crash
u.s. participation in an international agreement to control ozone-destroying chlorofluorocarbons was given the go-ahead by a senate panel and moves now to the full senate
the senate foreign relations committee on wednesday unanimously approved legislation tied to last september's agreement by industrialized nations to cut production of widely used cfcs up to 50 percent by 1999
cfcs, used as refrigerants, aerosol can propellants and industrial solvents, migrate into the stratosphere, where they destroy the ozone molecules that help screen the earth from the sun's cancer-causing ultraviolet rays
physician ralph r. reed of lawrence, kan., has been named deputy assistant secretary for health of the department of health and human services, a position that helps oversee the public health service
reed replaces lowell t. harmison, who recently resigned, and becomes the top aide to dr. robert e. windom, the no. 2 official at hhs
the public health service consists of seven agencies, including the food and drug administration, the national institutes of health and the centers for disease control. hhs secretary otis r. bowen announced the appointment this month
two masked gunmen robbed 70-year-old lady anne oxford of her jewels in her bedroom while her husband cooked pancakes in the kitchen
julian, the earl of oxford and asquith, had cooked his own dinner on shrove tuesday _ pancake day for britons _ and was unaware of the robbery
he is fond of pancakes and had made himself some to eat downstairs,'' lady oxford, who was uninjured, told london's evening standard
the earl, 71, is a grandson of the late sir herbert henry asquith, liberal prime minister in 1908-16
the countess said she went to bed early with a stomach ache at their southwest england manor house near frome, somerset. she said the thieves must have seen her husband when they broke in through a ground-floor window
i woke up to find two men at the bottom of my bed pointing two guns at me,'' the countess told the newspaper. ``it wasn't very nice.''
the masked men threatened to shoot her if she didn't give up her gems and warned they had tied up and gagged her husband and would kill him if she moved
neil thompson, a police detective inspector, said he had no immediate value for the stolen jewelry and ``very little to go on.''
a socialist and a saxophonist are among the dozens of arizonans _ 77 at last count _ lining up for the chance to run against gov. evan mecham in a may 17 recall election
only two, democrat carolyn warner and former u.s. house minority leader john rhodes, a republican, are given any real chance by political observers of unseating the impeached gop governor
but some of the lesser-knowns still insist their candidacies are worthwhile
dave colosimo of phoenix, a former teacher and a saxophone player in local bands, said he is working full-time on the race
if i didn't think i could win i wouldn't run,'' colosimo said. ``if i can run a household with five children and a wife, then i think i'd be pretty able to balance the books when i got into the office.''
however, colosimo acknowledged his candidacy so far is a ``one-man show.'' he has never sought public office before but said, ``i was president of my senior class _ that's a joke.''
meanwhile, the state senate on wednesday granted mecham a one-week delay of his impeachment trial originally set to begin monday, but defeated two motions for further delay offered by the embattled governor's attorney, murray miller
the senate rejected miller's request that the trial be put off until criminal charges accusing mecham of concealing a $350,000 campaign loan are tried. the lawyer had contended that an impeachment trial would prejudice the criminal trial jury
arizona chief justice frank gordon, who will preside at the impeachment trial, told the senate a one-week delay would ultimately save time by allowing some issues to be settled beforehand
if mecham is convicted in his impeachment trial, lawmakers could vote to bar him from holding any future political office
at this point, mecham will automatically be placed on the recall ballot. all other would-be candidates in the winner-take-all vote must file at least 3,336 valid petition signatures of registered voters by march 18
the secretary of state's office said 77 people had picked up packets to collect petition signatures by wednesday. wednesday was the first day for candidates to file petition signatures, but none did
among the earliest to pick up packets were mrs. warner, the former state schools superintendent who lost to mecham in a three-way race in november 1986, and rhodes, who has said he will announce friday whether he will run
other potential candidates range from republican national committeeman jack londen, who said he was considering running ``to preserve the conservative alternative'' if mecham is barred from running, to bernie senter, a meatpacker who ran for mayor of phoenix last fall as the socialist workers' party candidate
senter conceded that he can't win but said he also wants to provide voters with an alternative
i'm against everything that he (mecham) stands for,'' senter said, citing the governor's cancellation of a state holiday celebrating martin luther king jr.'s birthday
mecham, who also has been criticized for making remarks that have angered blacks, homosexuals, jews, women and the japanese, did not return telephone calls seeking comment on the number of potential candidates
democratic secretary of state rose mofford, who is acting governor pending mecham's impeachment trial, has no plans to run in the recall election, said her spokeswoman, athia hardt. if she does, state law will probably force her to resign
further complicating matters, attorney general bob corbin has issued an opinion saying that if mecham is removed from office before the recall vote, mrs. mofford, as the new governor, would have to face the recall herself
it's all messed up, it really is,'' ms. hardt said
the senate is considering a bill that would cancel the recall election if mecham resigns or is removed before the ballot is printed. barricaded dormitories, background on jail, city jail capacity, other details. no pickup.</note>
an estimated 550 inmates used beds and other furniture to barricade themselves inside a dozen jail dormitories on rikers island early thursday in an apparent protest over searches, authorities said
early reports indicated that no hostages were taken and no injuries were reported, said city correction department spokeswoman ruby ryles
the inmates took over the dormitories at the anna m. cross center, the city's maximum-security jail, around midnight wednesday, ms. ryles said. the center houses mainly convicted felons awaiting transfers to state jails, as well as some prisoners awaiting trial
the inmates ``barricaded doors and entrances and exits so they are not allowing'' correction officers in, she said
negotiators with the mutual assistance team, ``a team of officers trained to handle disturbances of this sort,'' made contact with the prisoners around 2 a.m., and extra guards were deployed at the facility, ms. ryles said
the security staff is apparently talking with the inmates in an attempt to resolve the disturbance peacefully,'' she said. ``they are also trying to determine what their complaints and their problems are.''
although it was not immediately known what sparked the uprising, inmates had strongly protested searches conducted by guards wednesday, ms. ryles said
inmates at the center, which houses 2,400 inmates in all, are kept in dormitories _ large rooms filled with beds _ rather than cells, she said. a head count was conducted
the city's prison system is currently at slightly more than 100 percent of capacity with more than 15,000 prisoners _ more than 11,000 at rikers, ms. ryles said
the inmates had been calling news organizations to say that they had taken over the entire facility, ms. ryles said, but the claim was not true
explorer thor heyerdahl has returned to easter island an ancient carved stone torso he took away to his native norway 30 years ago, a local press report said
heyerdahl and the 530-pound object arrived by plane this week at the tiny island, a territory of chile 2,230 miles west of the mainland, according wednesday's editions of the santiago daily el mercurio
heyerdahl, 74, was greeted by the island's council of elders who, wearing body paint and tribal clothing, unloaded the 5-foot-tall carving and blessed it at the airport. the somber ceremony quickly gave way to ``a happy street party,'' the newspaper said
the explorer and anthropologist sailed in replicas of primitive crafts across the pacific (1947), the atlantic (1970) and the persian gulf (1977) to seek evidence that ancient cultures could have been diffused by transoceanic travelers. he described these voyages in books called ``kon tiki,'' ``the ra expeditions'' and ``the tigris expedition.''
easter island is home to nearly 400 massive, brooding stone figures carved several hundred years ago and called moais
the moai returned by heyerdahl is unique, in that it represents the body of a woman. all others were made to resemble men
heyerdahl discovered the torso in 1958, bought it for an unspecified price and carried it off for display in his kon tiki museum in oslo, norway, the report said. it said he decided to return it when the moai's head was found about a year ago in the crater of an extinct volcano, rano kau
the head and torso will be reunited and put on display at the island's own museum, el mercurio said
a convicted italian terrorist who was released from prison when greece refused to extradite him to italy has applied for residency in greece, his lawyer said
maurizio folini, 34, a member of the red brigades organization, was freed tuesday after justice minister agamemnon koutsogiorgas overturned a supreme court extradition decision
we went and applied for permission and i am sure it will be granted. after he gets a residence permit we will ask for political asylum,'' folini's lawyer, nikos constantopoulos, told the associated press on wednesday
koutsogiorgas said folini was released because ``many of his punishable offenses have either been written off or are not punishable under greek law.''
others refer to the fact that folini tried to violently overthrow the economic and social institutions of the italian state. that is to say offenses that were clearly political,'' koutsogiorgas said
folini was convicted in absentia by an italian court in 1986 on terrorism charges. he was arrested in athens on june 22, 1987, after entering greece on a false passport. italian authorities immediately asked for his extradition
last september, the greek supreme court upheld a lower court decision ruling that folini should be extradited. but he had remained in jail in athens pending justice ministry confirmation of the decision
following is a list of 1987's top 10 moneymakers and how they performed at wednesday's 60th academy award nominations. (most of the big nominees were released late in the year and presumably would rank higher in a 1988 box office comparison
1. ``beverly hills cop ii,'' paramount, $153,651,824, 1 nomination
2. ``platoon,'' orion, $137,030,553, 8 nominations in 1986 awards, won 4 oscars
3. ``fatal attraction,'' paramount, $129,358,990, 6 nominations
4. ``three men and a baby,'' buena vista, $83,925,233, no nominations
5. ``untouchables,'' paramount, $76,254,308, 4 nominations
6. ``secret of my success,'' universal, $66,987,694, no nominations
7. ``stakeout,'' buena vista, $65,374,551, no nominations
8. ``lethal weapon,'' warner bros., $65,192,350, 1 nomination
9. ``witches of eastwick,'' warner bros., $63,749,955, 2 nominations
10. ``dragnet,'' universal, $57,201,679, no nominations
in a bid to reduce vandalism, the city is offering small rewards for help in catching people who deface or damage public property
for one year beginning next month, the city will give $120 rewards to people who help police catch vandals, according to finnish newspapers and english-language ``wanted'' posters seen in downtown helsinki this week
we chose english for the posters because `wanted' is such a well-known word,'' city spokesman pertti mustonen told the associated press. finland has two official languages, finnish and swedish
mustonen said the defacement or destruction of telephone booths, public transportation vehicles and other city property costs $950,000 a year
j.c. ``pete'' sebastian, who served the likes of winston churchill and cary grant at his store outside the gates of hearst's castle in the 1930s and 1940s, has died at the age of 81
sebastian died wednesday at twin cities hospital of a heart attack, said his daughter, mary sebastian hansen of boca raton, fla
in addition to running the store bearing his name, he served the tiny, rolling hills community of san simeon as its postmaster, notary public and registrar of voters
the general store, which included gas pumps, a coffee shop and post office, is registered as a state historical monument, ms. hansen said
sebastian worked as a landscaper around san francisco publisher william randolph hearst's art-bedecked mansion in the 1920s. now a museum run by the state department of parks and recreation, the sprawling home is one of the most popular tourist attractions in california
hearst, founder of the newspaper chain that carries his name and model for orson welles' classic movie ``citizen kane,'' often entertained celebrities and business and government notables at the hilltop mansion
churchill, grant and playwright george bernard shaw were among the many prominent visitors to the store sebastian took over from his father in 1933. he sold the shop in 1971 and retired, said bob buddell, the store's present owner
sebastian told an interviewer in 1986 that he always considered the hearsts neighbors, dating back to the pre-castle days when they stayed in the hotel bayview next to his family's store
here is a list of foreigners believed held by kidnappers in lebanon, with the dates they were reported seized:

american
1. terry anderson, chief middle east correspondent of the associated press, march 16, 1985
2. thomas sutherland, dean of agriculture at the american university of beirut, june 9, 1985
3. frank herbert reed, director of the lebanon international school in beirut, sept. 9, 1986
4. joseph james cicippio, acting comptroller of the american university of beirut, sept. 12, 1986
5. edward austin tracy, author, oct. 21, 1986
6. jesse turner, visiting professor of mathematics and computer science at beirut university college, jan. 24, 1987
7. robert polhill, assistant professor of business at beirut university college, jan. 24, 1987
8. alann steen, journalism professor at beirut university college, jan. 24, 1987
9. marine lt. col. william r. higgins, head of a 75-man observer group attached to the u.n. interim force in lebanon, feb. 17, 1987

british
1. alec collett, new york-based journalist on assignment with the united nations relief and works agency, march 25, 1985. the revolutionary organization of socialist moslems claimed on april 23, 1986, that he had been hanged in retaliation for the april 15 u.s. air raid on libya. his body has not been found
2. john mccarthy, cameraman for london-based worldwide television news agency, april 17, 1986
3. terry waite, british envoy of the anglican church who has been seeking the release of foreign hostages, jan. 20, 1987

french
1. marcel fontaine, vice consul at the french embassy in beirut, march 22, 1985
2. marcel carton, the embassy's protocol officer, march 22, 1985
3. michel seurat, researcher at the french center for studies and research of the contemporary middle east of the french national council for scientific research, may 22, 1985. on march 5, 1986, the islamic jihad group claimed he had been killed
4. jean-paul kauffmann, journalist working for the french weekly l'evenement du jeudi, may 22, 1985

indian
mithileswar singh, visiting professor of finance at beirut university college, jan. 24, 1987

irish
brian keenan, teacher at the american university of beirut, april 11, 1986

italian
alberto molinari, businessman, sept. 11, 1985

norwegian
william jorgensen, worker for u.n. relief and works agency, feb. 5, 1988

swedish
jan stening, employee of u.n. relief and works agency, feb. 5, 1988

west german
rudolf cordes, businessman with hoechst ag, jan. 17, 1987
ralph rudolf schray, employee of a beirut chemical company, jan. 27, 1988

unknown nationality
two people of unknown nationality were kidnapped on jan. 26, 1987
share prices opened slightly lower in london today as traders reacted to wednesday's fall in new york
the financial times-stock exchange 100-share index opened down 2.6 points at 1,745.5, but by 9:45 a.m. was back up to wednesday's close of 1,748.1
traders said 53 of the index shares were showing losses in quiet trading, six were showing gains and the remainder were unchanged
activity was expected to pick up later today following the release of 1987 earnings for midland bank and british petroleum co. plc, as well as british government lending and money supply figures for january
academy award winners will be announced next month, but hollywood's orgy of self-congratulation has already started with several top organizations naming their favorites, while one group cited the worst of 1987
the los angeles film critics, new york film critics, national board of review and golden globe awards generally agreed with the nominations announced wednesday by the academy of motion picture arts and sciences, while the national society of film critics was on its own wavelength
only the golden raspberry award foundation, which announced its nominees this week, concentrated on the worst. it will disclose its losers on april 19
the los angeles and new york film critics, national board of review and golden globes all followed the pattern of choosing a movie and its director for the two top categories
the national board of review picked one movie and another director. all five groups chose a different movie for best picture
new york and los angeles critics liked holly hunter of ``broadcast news'' for best actress; jack nicholson of ``ironweed'' also won on both coasts
here are the choices or nominees for some the more widely regarded film award groups:
the los angeles film critics: best picture, ``hope and glory;'' best director, john boorman, ``hope and glory;'' best actress, tie, holly hunter, ``broadcast news'' and sally kirkland, ``anna;'' best actor, tie, steve martin, ``roxanne,'' and jack nicholson, ``ironweed.''
the new york film critics: best picture, ``broadcast news;'' best director, james l. brooks, ``broadcast news;'' best actress, holly hunter, ``broadcast news;'' best actor, jack nicholson, ``ironweed.''
national society of film critics: best picture, ``the dead;'' best director, john boorman, ``hope and glory;'' best actress, emily lloyd, ``wish you were here;'' best actor, steve martin, ``roxanne.''
national board of review: best picture, ``empire of the sun;'' best director, steven spielberg, ``empire of the sun,'' best actress, lillian gish, ``the whales of august;'' best actor, michael douglas, ``wall street.''
golden globes: best picture (drama) ``the last emperor,'' (comedy-musical) ``hope and glory;'' best director, bernardo bertolucci, ``the last emperor;'' best actress (drama) glenn close, ``fatal attraction,'' (comedy-musical) cher, ``moonstruck;'' best actor (drama) michael douglas, ``wall street,'' (comedy-musical) robin williams, ``good morning vietnam.''
the golden raspberry foundation (worst movie award nominees):
picture: ``ishtar,'' ``jaws: the revenge,'' ``leonard: part 6,'' ``tough guys don't dance'' and ``who's that girl?''
actor: bruce the shark, ``jaws: the revenge;'' bill cosby, ``leonard: part 6;'' judd nelson, ``from the hip;'' ryan o'neal, ``tough guys don't dance;'' sylvester stallone, ``over the top.''
actress: sondra locke, ``ratboy;'' lorraine gary, ``jaws;'' debra sandlund, ``tough guys don't dance;'' sharon stone,``allan quatermain and the lost city of gold;'' madonna, ``who's that girl?''
director: norman mailer, ``tough guys don't dance;'' elaine may, ``ishtar;'' joseph sargent, ``jaws: the revenge;'' paul weiland, ``leonard: part 6;'' james foley, ``who's that girl?''
gov. evan mecham won a one-week delay in his impeachment trial, but the senate rejected his effort to have it postponed until after he faces criminal charges of concealing a campaign loan
the governor's attorney, murray miller, would not say after the votes wednesday whether he would follow through on an earlier threat to take the issue to court if the senate did not grant a delay
we will do whatever we think is appropriate to protect all the governor's rights,'' miller said
miller's motion to delay the trial until 20 days after the resolution of the criminal case lost on a voice vote, and a motion to delay the senate proceeding a flat 90 days went down 24-5, with five republicans supporting the governor
mecham was impeached feb. 5 for allegedly concealing a $350,000 campaign loan, misusing $80,000 from the governor's protocol fund by loaning it to his auto dealership and trying to thwart an investigation of an alleged death threat by a state official
in addition, at least 77 people are considering challenging mecham in a recall election may 17, including a former congressman and a former state school superintendent beaten by the republican in a three-way race in 1986
the senate agreed to delay the start of its trial from monday to feb. 29 after state chief justice frank gordon advised that a one-week postponement would actually save time because both sides could settle some issues beforehand. gordon is the presiding officer in the impeachment trial
miller has contended that holding the impeachment trial before the end of the criminal trial, which is scheduled to begin march 9, would prejudice the criminal trial jury and harm the governor's right to a fair decision
but senate majority leader bob usdane, a republican, warned, ``there is an ongoing fear ... that this will be the beginning of lots of motions for continuations'' by miller
senators also refused to drop or revise a rule adopted last week that allows the senate to hold closed meetings during the impeachment trial
lawmakers said last week the meetings could be held to consult with lawyers, discuss what questions could be asked or which witnesses to call and make final deliberations on whether to convict mecham
the idea of closed meetings was sharply criticized by the media, and 11 senators boycotted a brief closed meeting held during tuesday's session. sen. greg lunn, a republican, said that keeping the closed meetings could be ``feeding the worst suspicions of those in the public who are distrustful of our motives.'' plan</head> ^by reid g. miller</note>
cease-fire talks between the nicaraguan government and the contra rebels will not succeed until the sandinistas make more democratic reforms at home, a contra delegate to the negotiations said
fernando aguero and six other contra delegates arrived in guatemala city for talks today aimed at achieving a cease-fire in the six-year war between the rebels and nicaragua's leftist sandinista government
in another development,the foreign ministers of five central american countries met wednesday in san salvador, capital of el salvador, to discuss a way to verify compliance with a regional peace plan
the ministers _ from nicaragua, el salvador, guatemala, costa rica and honduras _ did not come up with a verification plan but agreed to meet again by march 15 in guatemala city
regarding the truce negotiations, the contra delegates said in guatemala city on wednesday they still want to expand the talks to include representatives of the internal nicaraguan opposition and to cover political issues
our position has not changed, and it will not change,'' aguero said. ``there can be no cease-fire unless the sandinistas first agree to democratic reforms in nicaragua.''
nicaragua's government has insisted on limiting the discussions with the u.s.-supported contras to the mechanics of working out a 30-day truce that could lead to a permanent cease-fire
the sandinistas say they will talk about political changes in nicaragua only after the contras have accepted an amnesty, laid down their arms and resumed civilian life within the country
victor hugo tinoco, the nicaraguan deputy foreign minister, is heading the sandinista delegation to the peace talks, scheduled to end saturday
jaime morales carazo, a former managua banker, leads the contra group. cardinal miguel obando y bravo, roman catholic archbishop of nicaragua, is mediator
the first direct talks between the warring sides were last month in san jose, costa rica, a week before the u.s. house of representatives voted down president reagan's request for $36.2 million in contra aid
negotiators for the rebels and the sandinistas offered sharply contrasting proposals at the two-day session in january, which was noted both for its cordiality and lack of progress. diplomatic observers suggested neither side wanted to rock the boat before the congressional vote
at that session, the sandinistas offered a slightly revised version of a negotiating position first outlined by president daniel ortega of nicaragua on a visit to washington last nov. 13. it called for a truce from march 15 to april 15
the sandinistas said at the time that the army would halt offensive operations on march 1 to give the contras time to move into three cease-fire zones in the northern, central and southern parts of nicaragua
once inside the zones, the contras would be permitted to retain their weapons and receive food, medicine, clothing and other humanitarian supplies from the international red cross or any other recognized international relief agency
at the end of the truce period, the contras would be expected to hand over their arms to an international commission, accept amnesty and return to civilian life with full constitutional guarantees
the contras have asked the government to agree to 17 changes in nicaragua's constitution, including a prohibition on presidential succession, electoral reforms, limits on presidential power, and separation of the army from the governing sandinista party
the talks are being held in accordance with a central american peace plan signed last august by the five countries whose foreign ministers met in san salvador
at the meeting, foreign minister rodrigo madrigal nieto of costa rica told reporters the officials must discuss certain issues in more detail and at greater length
in a joint statement, the ministers said they would seek help in verifying compliance with the regional peace plan from other countries and organizations ``of recognized impartiality and technical capability that have shown their desire to cooperate with the central american peace process.''
the foreign ministers form the peace plan's verification panel. the presidents of the central american countries decided last month to dissolve an earlier, more extensive commission in favor of the panel of foreign ministers
the peace plan calls for cease-fire talks between the governments and rebels in el salvador, guatemala and nicaragua as a first step toward democratic elections. it also urges political amnesties and a ban on all outside military assistance to rebel groups
the main opposition party urged chancellor helmut kohl to dismantle some nuclear missiles before the new u.s.-soviet arms treaty is ratified, as the kremlin has done
east germany's state-run news agency adn reported that soviet ss-12 missiles in waren, an east german site northwest of berlin, were dismantled, put in crates and were ready for transport back to the soviet union
the ss-12s are part of the u.s.-soviet agreement last december to eliminate medium-range and shorter-range missiles within three years. the treaty applies to nuclear missiles with a range of 300 to 3,000 miles
hermann scheer, disarmament expert for west germany's opposition social democrats, told reporters that kohl's government should respond to the soviet move with the early scrapping of west germany's 72 pershing 1a missiles
such a reaction would be equal to developing trust in disarmament which the leadership in east berlin has been working toward with the soviets,'' scheer said, speaking on behalf of the party
east german newspapers praised soviet plans for early removal of the ss-12 missiles from waren
soviet missile troops preparing withdrawal from the ddr (east germany). troops in waren dismantle medium-range rockets earlier than expected,'' the communist party's official newspaper, new germany, said in banner headlines wednesday
adn did not say how many missiles had been dismantled or when they would be returned to the soviet union, only that soviet soldiers ``are making the last preparations to return their ss-12 rockets.''
with this step we can make an important contribution toward disarmament even before the treaty between the united states and the soviet union is ratified,'' adn said
the east berlin-based newspaper berliner zeitung said wednesday: ``removal of missile troops from the ddr (east germany) starts earlier than expected.''
president reagan and soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev signed the superpower treaty in washington last december. kohl had announced beforehand that west germany would scrap its pershing 1a missiles if a treaty was agreed upon
west germany owns the pershing 1a missiles, but the united states controls the nuclear warheads for the rockets
three u.s. senate committees are debating the treaty and ratification may come this summer. the supreme soviet, the soviet union's parliament, is expected to approve the accord
east german leader erich honecker said in january that soviet intermediate-range rockets based in his country could be removed ahead of schedule, but at the time he gave no specific timetable
according to figures released after the treaty was signed, 22 rockets, 12 launchers, nine transport vehicles and seven practice missiles were stationed at the waren site, which holds the largest numbers of ss-12s in east germany. there are three other ss-12 rocket sites in the country
the city of waren is 90 miles northwest of berlin
two former executives of the beech-nut nutritional corp. face substantial prison terms and fines after being convicted of selling flavored sugar water labeled as apple juice for babies
former beech-nut president neils l. hoyvald and a former vice president, john f. lavery, were charged with hundreds of violations of federal food and drug laws along with conspiracy and mail fraud
lavery was convicted wednesday of all 448 counts in the indictment, said federal prosecutor thomas roche
hoyvald was found guilty on 351 counts of violating federal food and drug laws; the jury, however, could not reach a verdict on about 80 other counts against him, including conspiracy and mail fraud, roche said
the maximum penalty for conspiracy is five years in prison and a $10,000 fine; for mail fraud, five years and $1,000; and for food and drug law violations, three years and $10,000, roche said
u.s. district court judge thomas c. platt did not set a date for sentencing, but it should be within six to eight weeks, roche said
roche said both hoyvald and lavery, who were allowed to remain free on bail until sentencing, face ``substantial prison terms and substantial fines.'' it is likely, however, that they would serve concurrent sentences
lawyers for both men declined to comment on the verdict but said they would appeal the convictions
roche called the result of the three-month trial ``an important victory for consumers
the corporation, which also was named in the november 1986 indictments, pleaded guilty last year, a fact the judge withheld from the jury
beech-nut, a subsidiary of nestle inc. and based in fort washington, pa., agreed to pay a $2 million fine, and also settled a class-action suit by agreeing to set up a $5 million cash fund for consumers and to provide $2.5 million in beech-nut and affiliated products to retailers
the indictment charged that beech-nut shipped adulterated juice throughout the united states and overseas from 1978 to 1983. no evidence was presented that the juice caused any health problems
hoyvald's attorney, brendan sullivan jr., urged the jury not to believe the testimony of two key prosecution witnesses who work for beech-nut that they had repeatedly warned executives that the concentrate used to make the produce contained little or no apple juice
steven kimelman, lavery's attorney, said his client was ``a man who had nothing to gain by committing a crime.'' lavery was in charge of manufacturing at the canajoharie plant in western new york, where the product was bottled
rain dampened the southwest today, while much of the nation enjoyed above-normal temperatures
scattered showers and a few thunderstorms extended from southwest texas into northwest louisiana late wednesday night. rain was falling elsewhere from eastern sections of texas and oklahoma across the lower mississippi valley
some parts of northeast texas received over 2 inches of rain wednesday. six-tenths of an inch fell in 20 minutes at waco
heavier rainfall during the six hours ending at 1 a.m. est included three-quarters of an inch at waco, two-thirds of an inch at dallas naval air station, and a half-inch at longview, texas, and little rock air force base, ark
snow was mixed with rain over southeast new mexico, and a snow advisory was posted for parts of the state for up to 4 inches
dry weather prevailed over the rest of the country. only scattered light snow showers extended across the northern rockies and northeast nevada. an inch of new snow fell at mullan, idaho, wednesday evening
a dense fog advisory was issued until midmorning over the middle texas coastal region
late night temperatures were near or above normal across most of the nation. the coldest temperatures occurred across the central rockies and the upper great lakes region, where readings in the teens were common
today's forecast called for light snow across northwestern sections of texas and oklahoma, with rain elsewhere from the southern plains across the lower half of the mississippi valley to northwest florida, georgia and the western carolinas; showers and thunderstorms from south texas across the central gulf coast region; and snow showers in the northern and central rockies
much of the nation will have highs in the 40s or 50s. highs will be in the upper 20s and 30s in the northern and central rockies, and from northeast montana across the great lakes region into northern new england; and in the 60s and 70s in california and southern arizona, southern texas and much of south carolina, georgia and florida, hitting the low 80s in south florida
temperatures around the nation at 2 a.m. est ranged from 2 below zero at craig, colo., to 70 at brownsville, texas
other reports:
_east: atlanta 39 partly cloudy; boston 34 partly cloudy; buffalo 29 foggy; charleston, s.c. 39 fair; cincinnati 36 cloudy; cleveland 25 foggy; detroit 25 fair; miami 65 fair; new york 35 cloudy; philadelphia 33 foggy; pittsburgh 31 foggy; portland, maine 33 cloudy; washington 35 partly cloudy
_central: bismarck 24 fair; chicago 25 fair; dallas-fort worth 46 drizzle; denver 17 fair; des moines 29 fair; indianapolis 29 foggy; kansas city 28 fair; minneapolis-st. paul 32 fair; nashville 43 fair; new orleans 54 rain; st. louis 32 fair
_west: albuquerque 27 fair; anchorage 21 cloudy; las vegas 39 cloudy; los angeles 53 fair; phoenix 51 fair; salt lake city 30 cloudy; san diego 54 fair; san francisco 52 windy; seattle 41 partly cloudy
_canada: montreal 30 snow; toronto 23 fair
laos has given u.s. officials two boxes of remains it believes to be those of american servicemen missing during the indochina war, an american official in bangkok said today
the official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the number of remains would not be known until they are analyzed by the u.s. army's central identification laboratory in honolulu. the remains are to be flown from bangkok to honolulu friday, he said
the official said the laotians on wednesday also turned over identification cards of three men on the official u.s. list of 555 americans missing in action, or mia, in laos
ross petzing, the spokesman of the u.s. embassy in bangkok, said it was the first time since august 1978 that laos unilaterally had made mia remains available to the americans. a number of remains were retrieved when the two sides jointly excavated warplane crash sites in 1985 and 1986, however
a statement from the u.s. embassy in vientiane, the capital of laos, said the mission's charge d'affaires, harriet isom, and military officials received the remains at a ceremony in vientiane airport
the laotians also handed over pieces of aircraft wreckage they excavated in december and january, said the statement, which was dated wednesday
the official laotian radio on wednesday said the remains were retrieved during excavations in savannakhet and saravane provinces. both are in laos' southern panhandle area, between thailand and vietnam
the lao side's positive response to the u.s. humanitarian question shows the sincerity of the ... government in improving relations with the united states,'' laotian radio said. a text of the broadcast was obtained today from a western embassy in bangkok
laos' communist government agreed last august to resume efforts to account for mias after apparently having suspended them since a crash-site excavation in february 1986. in return, the united states has pledged to respond to laos' calls for humanitarian assistance
many of the mias in laos were airmen shot down on missions against the ho chi minh trail, which north vietnamese communist forces used to ferry men and supplies to south vietnam. separate cover by the defense dept. with an embargo of 12 noon est. a separate pm-budget-national security story has moved without an embargo.</note>
president reagan asked congress today to scratch dozens of programs from the military wish list and for the first time in his presidency to make significant cuts in the size of american forces
defense secretary frank c. carlucci, in a lengthy annual report to congress accompanying the president's fiscal 1989 budget proposal, said the administration was living up to the bargain it made with congress last november setting new military spending limits
carlucci said the pentagon believes the limits will force it ``to accept greater risks than we think wise.''
we have done our best to apportion reductions in ways that minimize those risks. we will reduce the size of our forces, but the units we do field will have what they need to perform the tasks entrusted to them.''
carlucci said the combined active-duty forces of the army, navy, air force and marine corps will be reduced gradually this year to 2,138,000 and then held at that level throughout fiscal 1989 _ which begins on oct. 1
that will represent a cut of about 34,000 active-duty positions compared to the 2,172,000 that congress authorized for this year, and a cut of 46,000 compared to the fiscal 1989 force the pentagon had planned
reductions will be accommodated through attrition and reduced accessions (recruiting),'' carlucci said
the air force will diminish by roughly 23,000 to about 576,000. the army will lose about 8,600 soldiers, dropping to about 772,000, while the marine corps will lose about 2,900 to about 197,000. the navy will hold steady at about 593,000
in addition, the defense secretary said more than 10,000 civilian jobs would be cut in fiscal 1989 _ leaving a total of 1,102,000 worldwide _ but reserve strength would hold steady at 1.17 million
the administration's priorities are unchanged, carlucci continued
the pentagon wants $4.55 billion for the star wars missile defense system compared to $3.55 billion this year; wants to continue work on a rail-mobile version of the mx missile; is requesting $1.4 billion for another trident nuclear submarine, and wants servicemen to receive a 4.3 percent pay raise instead of the 2 percent planned for civilian government workers
on the other hand, carlucci said the army will deactivate a motorized infantry brigade at fort lewis, wash., and cancel the scheduled activation of two light infantry battalions in alaska; the navy will forego plans to stand up a 14th air wing at the miramar, calif., naval air station and retire ships it wanted to keep, and the air force will deactivate two fighter wings
the fiscal 1989 budget totals for the pentagon have been known for three months _ ever since the white house and congress reached agreement on a two-year, deficit-reduction package
under that compromise, $299.5 billion will be authorized for military programs in fiscal 1989 and $294 billion actually spent in outlays. the difference represents authorized funding for long-term projects and weapons buying in future years
the fiscal 1989 total is an increase over the $291.4 billion in budget authority approved for this year but is unlikely to compensate for inflation. carlucci complained that fiscal 1989 will be the fourth consecutive year of ``negative real growth'' in military spending
the pentagon had asked for authority to spend $332.4 billion in fiscal 1989 before the deficit compromise was adopted _ meaning dozens of military programs had to be revised
according to carlucci, the result was that:
_the army will retire 450 aging utility helicopters and 170 scout copters; cancel the aquila surveillance drone program and stop production of copperhead laser-guided artillery shells; cancel development of the anti-tactical missile, and develop only one new light helicopter instead of two
_the navy will give up its goal of reaching a 600-ship fleet in fiscal 1989, settling for 580. it will retire 16 frigates early; deactivate one poseidon missile submarine that had been scheduled for overhaul; kill its new blimp program, and cancel development of a new model of the intruder attack jet, the a-6f
_the air force will deactivate the 474th tactical fighter wing at nellis air force base and one other _ either the 401st air wing now in spain or another one if a new european home is found for the 401st. it will reduce its operation of sr-71 surveillance jets, relying more on satellites; cancel development of the asat satellite-killer rocket, and delay certain space operations at vandenberg air force base
_purchases of air force f-15's and marine av-8b jump jets will be cut back
carlucci said he would recommend to congress that it kill development of the single-warhead midgetman nuclear missile. but the pentagon is requesting $200 million for the program in fiscal 1989 to keep the missile alive long enough for the next administration to decide its fate, he said
a 12-year-old boy doused himself with rubbing alcohol and set himself on fire imitating a scene he had seen in a rock music video, authorities said
bryan tucker was in fair condition today at memorial hospital with second-degree burns on his legs, abdomen and chest
the boy, a fan of heavy-metal music who takes electric guitar lessons and wears an earring in the shape of a cross, said he was inspired by a member of the band motley crue performing in a television video
he just lit his legs on fire, and nothing happened to him,'' the sixth-grader said
fire inspector tom wolf said the boy poured isopropyl alcohol over his body and set it afire with a match
he dropped to the ground and rolled around,'' wolf said, but the fire would not go out
the youth ran to the bathroom and got in the tub, which was filled with water from a bath he had taken earlier
fortunately, the tub was not emptied,'' wolf said
bryan's mother was away at buying medicine for the boy and his 14-year-old sister, who had both stayed home from school with the flu, wolf said
the video the boy had seen was of the group performing the song ``live wire'' from the video ``motley crue uncensored,'' wolf said
a powerful blast of shock waves can smash gallstones inside the body and may someday replace surgery for more than 100,000 americans each year, experts say
the procedure, called lithotripsy, has already become the standard treatment for kidney stones. research published today suggests it will also be useful for many people with gallstones, which are four times more common
doctors in west germany showed that the procedure is ``a safe and effective treatment in selected patients'' with gallstones. their work is the first large-scale examination of the therapy for people with this problem
more than 150 hospitals in the united states already have shock wave machines for smashing kidney stones. since its approval in 1984, this therapy has become routine for many of the 120,000 americans who once required kidney stone surgery each year. an estimated 475,000 americans undergo gallstone surgery annually
most of us think that at least 20 percent and maybe even a third to half of the (gallstone) patients in the united states within three to five years could be treated by this means,'' said dr. randolph b. reinhold. ``a significant number of people who are treated with surgery could be treated without surgery.''
reinhold, a researcher at new england medical center in boston, is among u.s. experts who plan to begin testing the shock wave machines, called lithotriptors, next spring
lithotriptors use shock waves to smash stones still inside the body. instead of requiring major surgery and about six weeks of recuperation, patients are sent home within a day or two and often don't require general anesthesia
the german study was conducted by dr. michael sackmann and colleagues at the university of munich. a report on their first 175 patients was published in the new england journal of medicine
it's the only really good study that's been done in the world, and it's very optimistic data by a very good group,'' said reinhold
as currently set up, kidney stone lithotriptors cannot be used to treat gallstones. kidney stones are made largely of calcium, and the machines are equipped with x-rays to produce images of them. but most gallstones are made of cholesterol, which doesn't show up on x-rays. so gallstone lithotriptors use ultrasound to make their pictures
lithotriptors designed to smash gallstones are being installed in 10 u.s. hospitals for experimental use
in the german study, only about a quarter of all gallstone patients were allowed to try the treatment. many were excluded because they had more than three stones or especially large ones
the treatment pulverized their gallstones, leaving only a trace of fine sand or sludge. the patients took bile acid drugs for three months to dissolve the debris. within a year or so, this residue was gone completely in more than 90 percent of the patients
the therapy failed to break up a stone in just one case. that patient was the only one of the 175 who required surgery
lithotriptors like that used in west germany cost $1.2 million or more
gallbladder surgery typically costs between $6,000 and $7,000. reinhold said that initially, patients treated with lithotripsy will be kept in the hospital for two days, and their treatment will cost $4,000 to $5,000. however, this price will probably go down as doctors gain experience and begin sending patients home a few hours after the procedure
the u.s. dollar was mostly lower, but firming, in early european trading today. gold prices rose slightly
a foreign currency dealer at a large american bank in frankfurt said there is active interest in buying from east bloc banks, among others
traders predicted activity would ease later today amid a continued lack of market-moving news
in tokyo, where trading ends as europe's business day begins, the dollar slid against the japanese yen, closing at 130.00 yen, down 0.41 yen. in later london trading it was quoted at 130.15 yen
other dollar rates at midmorning, compared with late wednesday:
_1.7040 west german marks, down from 1.7065
_1.4033 swiss francs, up from 1.4030
_5.7587 french francs, down from 5.7635
_1.9132 dutch guilders, down from 1.9190
_1,255.75 italian lire, down from 1,258.75
_1.2685 canadian dollars, up from 1.2656
in london, it cost $1.7490 to buy one british pound, unchanged from late wednesday
bullion dealers said the gold market was sluggish and lacked direction, but some light buying from switzerland helped lift prices
gold opened in london at a bid price of $445 a troy ounce, compared with late wednesday's $446. at midmorning today, the city's five major bullion dealers fixed a recommended price of $446.25
in zurich, the bid price was .446.20, up from $446 late wednesday
hong kong financial markets were closed for the chinese new year holiday
silver was quoted in london today at a bid price of $6.43 a troy ounce, up from wednesday's $6.42. plan</head>
a boom startled the sentries, shattered the tropical pre-dawn calm and cut off all the lights at the salvadoran cotton cooperative ltd. outside this provincial capital
the attack was part of the biggest guerrilla offensive this year. the coordinated strike included a raid on the 6th infantry brigade base in usulutan, 5 miles east of the cooperative, and the blowing up of two bridges and more than a dozen utility poles
in san salvador, about 60 miles to the northwest, foreign ministers of five central american nations met to assess progress in implementing a regional peace accord signed last august
army officers said the attacks early wednesday by 600 insurgents of the farabundo marti national liberation front left at least 18 people dead. fourteen people were wounded
an entire family _ the five young hernandez children and their parents _ perished when a guerrilla mortar fell short of the 6th brigade compound and hit their one-room brick and adobe home in a poor neighborhood
five soldiers of the brigade died, as did at least five guerrillas, said the brigade commander, col. inocencio montano. he said about 300 rebels took part in the strike on the base
montano said four of the 55 u.s. military advisers stationed in el salvador were at the base when the assault began at 12:10 a.m., but none was in danger
pvt. rodolfo marinero montoya slouched on the steps of the cooperative's makeshift barracks, exhausted after many hours of combat
after the mortar barrage, he said, the guerrillas ``attacked from all sides.'' he said a mortar round scored a direct hit on one of the open-sided, zinc-roofed warehouses behind the barracks, igniting stacked bales of cottonseed
marinero said he did not know if the other warehouses caught fire from the heat of the first blaze or if the dozens of rebels that penetrated the cooperative burned them
seven of the 15 warehouses were destroyed. members and officials of the cooperative did not have a dollar estimate of the damage. a cottonseed oil factory next to the cooperative also was attacked and damaged
by midday, tired firefighters with soot-streaked faces took turns training a stream of water on the only warehouse fire that still threatened to spread
rebels fighting an 8-year-old war against the u.s.-supported government contend economic targets, especially farms or storage facilities for coffee, cotton and sugar, are valid military objectives
the three products account for 80 percent of el salvador's foreign exchange
lt. jose mejia henriquez, commander of the cooperative's permanent 30-man police detachment, said the attackers numbered about 300
the guerrillas demolished a utility pole down the road from the big communal enterprise then fired 60mm mortars and rocket-propelled grenades for about 15 minutes
then they attacked shouting like indians,'' mejia said on the porch of the cooperative's offices. ``they shouted at us to surrender, calling to me by my name that it was useless to resist.''
his troops held the guerrillas off at the front of the cooperative, he said, but many rebels breached the defenses from the sides and rear and infiltrated the cooperative. julio campos of the national police was killed
the rebels blew up the palo seco and vado marine bridges just west and east, respectively, of usulutan. the city, 70 miles southeast of san salvador and home to 70,000 people, is the capital of usulutan province on this country's hot, scrub- and palm-studded coastal plain
mejia said the battle at the cooperative lasted nearly four hours, about an hour longer than fighting around the 6th brigade
he said he could not say categorically that the attackers suffered losses, but said reinforcements that arrived after dawn found at least two places around the cooperative with ``pools of blood'' and first-aid refuse that indicated casualties
the foreign ministers of el salvador, honduras, nicaragua, guatemala and costa rica ended 10 hours of talks wednesday in san salvador without agreeing on the mechanisms for determining compliance with provisions of the regional peace plan
they said they would meet again next month in guatemala
salvadoran foreign minister ricardo acevedo peralta opened the session by urging the signatories to comply with the peace plan's injunction against providing aid to insurgents in any central american country. the call was apparently directed at nicaragua, which el salvador claims backs the fmln
el salvador, a massachusetts-sized country of 5 million people, last year received more than $600 million in u.s. aid, most of it military or war-related
a car bomb exploded on a tehran expressway today, wounding two people, iran's official islamic republic news agency reported
it also said two other ``powerful bombs'' were defused ``in the last several days'' in north tehran's vanak square and a gasoline station in ormieh, capital of west azerbaijan province in northwest iran, close to the iraqi border
the expressway bombing was the second in tehran this week
irna reported that 10 people were wounded tuesday when a car bomb exploded in a residential quarter in the northern part of tehran
that blast happened five days after iranians celebrated the ninth anniversary of ayatollah ruhollah khomeini's islamic revolution that toppled the late shah mohammed reza pahlavi in 1979
irna said today's explosion damaged cars and shattered windows of nearby stores. it gave no other details in a terse report
it blamed the bombing on ``agents of world arrogance,'' a revolutionary epithet for the united states and its european allies
iran includes iraq, with which it has been fighting since september 1980, among america's allies
last september, irna said a car bomb exploded in a north tehran street. the agency did not mention any casualties in that blast
iran's official media reported last month that four people identified as terrorists were hanged in public for planting car bombs in tehran and the western city of bakhtaran last year
the reports said the four had smuggled cars from iraq before packing them with explosives
thirty-tree people were killed and more than 200 wounded in car bombings in tehran and the the holy city of qom, 110 miles south of the capital, in august 1986. several people were later executed
iran has blamed the bombings on the leftist mujahedeen khalq, or people's warriors, the main opposition group seeking to oust the fundamentalist government. the iraq-based mujahedeen have repeatedly denied those charges
the university of massachusetts' chancellor says he has ``great admiration'' for minority students who ended their six-day takeover of an academic building after they were promised remedies for campus racism
chancellor joseph duffey said the negotiations were conducted cordially with representatives of the more than 150 students, who filed out of the new africa house with their fists raised in a victory salute wednesday afternoon
i ordered chinese food and i hunched over one word processor and they were at another,'' duffey said. ``they were a very lively, interesting, wonderful group of young people. we had a good time. we also had serious differences.''
segun eubanks, 25, a umass senior and a member of the protest group, was one of the few students who remained in the afro-american studies and cultural center, where the only evidence of the protest was a sign outside reading, ``thanks for your support.''
basically, i think this is the beginning, this is the easy part,'' said eubanks. ``i feel like we've won the first major battle.''
the five-page agreement between duffey and nine of the protesters was reached late tuesday night following nearly four hours of negotiations. it included a promise to change the school's student conduct code to allow suspension of students who commit acts of racial violence or harassment
duffey also promised extensive renovation of the new africa house and funds for educational and cultural activities for minority students. and he agreed to increased funding to recruit of minority students and teachers, but rejected a demand for student involvement in hiring faculty. no amounts of funding were negotiated
duffey also consented to the formation of a student committee to monitor progress of the pact
prior to tuesday's negotiations, protesters dropped their demands to suspend or dismiss five white students accused of beating two blacks feb. 7 and suspend campus police officers accused of forming a line-up of blacks the same night in a search for men who allegedly harassed a female student. the protesters said they were satisfied the university or courts would deal with the incidents properly
the nature of this event had to do with a group who wanted to show the world their apprehenson, concern and fear,'' duffey told reporters. ``i have great admiration for the students' leadership, concern and courage.''
duffey, however, blamed the feb. 7 incidents more on alcohol abuse than racism
the 150 students, many of whom remained in the new africa house during the takeover, said they broke an early-morning deadlock and debated the administration's response until just before noon wednesday
i feel like i'm going to faint _ i haven't been able to sleep and i haven't been able to eat,'' said joella costello, 24, a junior who burst in to tears after the vigil ended. ``but it was all worth it.''
about 200 spectators, including amy carter, daughter of former president jimmy carter, watched the end of the takeover, which began friday morning. miss carter, 20, was among 14 people arrested in november 1986 at umass during a protest of cia recruitment on campus. she was later acquitted of trespassing and disorderly conduct charges
duffey discouraged a call by students for a moratorium on classes tuesday and wednesday to protest racism, sexism and other forms of oppression
protesters claimed the present climate at umass began with a clash between blacks and whites following the 1986 world series
mohammed ali hamadi denied involvement in the 1985 hijacking of a twa jetliner, according to testimony today at the kidnapping trial of his brother, abbas ali hamadi
abbas hamadi is accused of kidnapping two west germans in january 1987 in a bid to force the west german government to reject a u.s. extradition request for mohammed hamadi
the contents of several letters mohammed hamadi wrote to relatives in beirut after his arrest in west germany last year were read into the court record today
west german federal criminal officers seized the letters before they could be smuggled out of the frankfurt prison where mohammed hamadi is being held
in a letter dated jan. 21, 1987, mohammed hamadi wrote to his parents: ``i found out today about the united states' allegations. i am being accused of something that i had nothing to do with.''
in another letter to another brother, abdul hadi hamadi, mohammed wrote: ``i only ask that the kidnappers take good care of the hostages. they're just people being held like me.''
on wednesday, federal investigator klaus pruefer said an acquaintance of abbas hamadi's, hamsa kassim, told police the defendant informed him in a telephone conversation that west german businessman rudolf cordes had been kidnapped
kassim quoted hamadi, who was calling from beirut, as saying: ``we have kidnapped a west german,'' according to his statement to police
excerpts of kassim's statement to police were read into the court record on wednesday. cordes was kidnapped jan. 17, 1987, shortly after hamadi's brother, mohammed, was arrested in frankfurt and later accused of the twa hijacking
in one excerpt read into the court record, kassim, who lives in saarland state, said abbas hamadi told him that mohammed hamadi was arrested because ``he was one of the kidnappers of the american twa'' jetliner
kassim also told police that abbas hamadi made the remarks on jan. 14, 1987, one day after his brother mohammed was arrested at frankfurt airport carrying explosives
abbas hamadi is accused of kidnapping the two west germans in beirut in a bid to force the west german government to reject a u.s. request to extradite his brother. west germany turned down the extradition request, but has since charged him in this country
last week, former west german hostage alfred schmidt testified that hamadi was not among the initial gunmen who kidnapped him from his beirut hotel room jan. 20. he said hamadi was older and taller than the men who abducted him
schmidt also said he did not think a man who questioned him in german in beirut was hamadi. abbas hamadi lived in west germany and speaks fluent german
federal officers have testified that abbas hamadi's fingerprints were found on a letter schmidt wrote to family members during his captivity
schmidt was released in september in what his kidnappers said was a good-will gesture. cordes is still being held
west german authorities last week charged mohammed hamadi with murder and air piracy in connection with the 1985 hijacking of the twa jetliner to beirut. he faces the same charges in the united states. a u.s. navy diver was killed and 39 americans were held for 17 days in the hijacking ordeal
a trial date for mohammed hamadi, 23, has not yet been set. if convicted, he could be sentenced to life in prison
he remains in investigative custody in frankfurt
a third west german citizen, ralph rudolf schray, was kidnapped in beirut three weeks ago in an apparent attempt to increase pressure on west germany to release the hamadi brothers
no one has claimed responsibility for that kidnapping
this was a consciousness-raising incident. it shows pieces of paper do not stop bullets.'' _ san jose family court commissioner lois kittle as she made permanent an order against richard w. farley to stop harassing a woman, after he allegedly went on a shooting ramage that left seven people dead and four others injured, including the woman
we hold the kidnappers responsible for his safety.'' _ white house spokesman roman popadiuk on the abduction wednesday of lt. col. william r. higgins of the marines in southern lebanon
i think this is the victory of a film that only wants to be cinema, that is not intimidated by television, that believes in the great screen, in cinema as the cathedral of collective imagination.'' _ italian director bernardo bertolucci on the nine academy award nominations garnered by his film ``the last emperor.''
denver may have the highest per-capita level of education in the nation, but you might not know it from an advertisement boasting that fact in business week magazine
the full-page ad reads, ``it's really very simple: smart people perfer to live'' in the mile high city
perfer?
richard fleming, president of the greater denver chamber of commerce, which paid for the ad, said he was unaware of the typographical spelling error until a reporter asked him about it
the typo ``certainly doesn't change the fact that denver has the highest per capita level of education in the country,'' fleming said recently
the ad claims that 81 percent of denver's adult population are high school graduates and 26 percent are college graduates
don't overlay this,'' he said. ``i know it's kind of unique. but it's not the stock market crash or world war iii.''
it's also not the first incident in recent weeks that has piqued denver's pride. last month, city officials and residents were angered when a cbs news correspondent, reflecting on denver's second straight loss in the superbowl, called it a town ``that's never been no. 1 in anything but carbon monoxide levels.''
one hundred furry little creatures are starting to make the guest lists of hundreds of parties and conventions throughout the midwest
the star-struck rodents are participants in a mouse-racing act that has turned into a good living for ron penland of kansas city, mo., and is quickly becoming a popular alternative to traditional forms of party entertainment
penland, 38, has been taking his 100 mice on the road for 11 years, and the going rate now to set up the race track in kansas city is a minimum of $350
the self-described ``mouse man'' set up his 16-foot race track in springfield on tuesday as conventioneers attending a meeting of the illinois grain and feed association cheered on six of the racing rodents
the mice scurried through the tiny doors at the starting gate and scrambled to the finish line. they crawled over hurdles and passed pictures of cats along the way
penland says he doesn't encourage gambling, but just in case, he posts the career winnings of the mice in each race on a nearby posterboard. observers; higgins refusing to abide by them. trims to tighten. no pickup. ^with pm-lebanon-kidnapping, bjt</note>
an american serviceman crossed the border today, one of more than 20 americans who remained on the job in south lebanon despite the kidnapping of lt. col. william r. higgins a day earlier
u.n. spokesman timor goksel said there were no plans to change u.n. regulations that restrict americans to the border and headquarters areas for most duties and require armed escorts for travel beyond those areas
higgins told u.n. officials he had full authority from the american government to travel wherever he wished, according to sources who spoke on condition of anonymity
goksel said 16 american servicemen and a half-dozen civilians continued to work in lebanon, most of them staying overnight at headquarters in naqoura to follow the search for higgins
one officer who identified himself as an american working for the u.n. truce supervision organization (untso) was seen crossing into lebanon. but he refused to give his name or answer a reporter's questions while waiting for israeli guards to open the blue steel gate at the border checkpoint
other american personnel reached by telephone at u.n. headquarters in naqoura and in jerusalem referred reporters to the pentagon, saying they were not permitted to speak
higgins, 43, a marine officer from danville, ky., was new on the job, taking up his post jan. 8 as commander of 75 unarmed observers from 16 nations. he was kidnapped wednesday while returning from the southern port city of tyre where he met with a shiite moslem political leader
asked why americans were still working in southern lebanon in view of recent abductions, goksel said american observers had been under a travel ban since 1985. ``higgins felt he couldn't abide by these restrictions. ... he assured us there would be no problems,'' goksel said
higgins felt that as chief, he should be out with his men and know what they are doing,'' he said, noting higgins commanded a force made up largely of non-americans
goksel indicated the americans were safe because ``they are not serving the united states but under the u.n. flag.''
the border area is also more friendly for americans because it is controlled by israeli troops and allied christian militiamen. but higgins was traveling outside this zone when he was taken
in general, goksel said, americans in the observer corps have been doing headquarters duties and working in observation posts along the lebanese side of the border with israel
goksel said one of the main functions of the observer group was to maintain contacts with local leaders, and higgins' visit to amal representatives was an initial courtesy call arranged through the tyre u.n. office
until now, we have always felt safe in tyre,'' goksel said
higgins, the first u.n. peacekeeper to be kidnapped in lebanon, was traveling alone and unarmed in a u.n. vehicle, following another u.n. vehicle with two observers, a dane and an american
goksel said u.n. troops from fiji, ghana, ireland and finland were leading the search for higgins
he said the mainstream shiite militia amal was heavily involved in searches outside the u.n. zone. ``they are reporting to us, but we are not coordinating with them,'' he said
u.n. officials said they were encouraged by the fact that the militia was involved, noting there had been no active searches when westerners had been abducted elsewhere in lebanon
a son and a nephew of the late president gamal abdel nasser are among 20 people indicted in connection with four attacks on u.s. and israeli diplomats in cairo, egypt's chief prosecutor announced today
prosecutor general mohammed el-guindi said he was seeking the death penalty for 11 of the defendants, including khaled abdel nasser, eldest son of the late president
el-guindi said he wants prison sentences up to life for the other nine, among them nasser's nephew, gamal shawky abdel nasser, a physician
both nasser relatives are fugitives outside egypt. family members say the son is living with his wife and children in yugoslavia and the nephew in london
el-guindi's indictment accused the first 11 defendants of forming a group called egypt's revolution to assassinate foreign diplomats, aiming to disrupt relations between egypt and several countries and to destabilize security within egypt
the indictment also charged the 11 with murder and attempted murder in the attacks, which occurred one a year between 1984 and 1987. two israelis died and six israelis and two americans were wounded in the attacks
egypt's revolution was financed from abroad, el-guindi told reporters, but he said investigations had not shown which country or countries were involved
the nine defendants for whom lesser penalties are being asked were accused of complicity in the alleged conspiracies
under the name egypt's revolution, these men assassinated and attempted to assassinate diplomats with the aim of destabilizing the security situation in egypt and spoiling relations between egypt and those countries,'' el-guindi said
there was no aim to overthrow the government.''
the defendants included two former military officers and a former corporal
nine of the 11 for whom el-guindi is seeking the death penalty had been arrested and ordered released by the courts. el-guindi said they would be re-arrested
large numbers of bombs, ammunition and weapons including machine guns were discovered with the defendants, he said
the financing came from abroad, but the investigation has not showed from where,'' el-guindi said
the indictment said khaled nasser, 38, formed egypt's revolution along with mahmoud nour el-din el-sayed ali suliman, 47, a former administrative employee at the egyptian embassy in london, and ahmed essam el-din el-sayed ali suliman. the sulimans are brothers
mahmoud suliman was the leader and fired weapons in each attack, the indictment said, and nasser handled the group's financial and material supplies
el-guindi said the international police coordination agency interpol would be asked to help bring khaled nasser back to egypt
neither yugoslavia nor britain, where gamal shawki abdel nasser is reported to be, has an extradition treaty with egypt
egypt's revolution first surfaced in 1984, when an israeli labor attache was wounded. its communiques claiming the attacks indicated a pan-arab philosophy comprising the ideas of gamal abdel nasser, republican egypt's first president
nasser was revered throughout the arab world and died in september 1970
investigators said the group described itself in a letter to a magazine editor wounded in an attack by an underground moslem fundamentalist group as ``nasserite ... with weapons training, aiming to end the official presence of israelis in the country.'' court protection, moving.</note>
a woman wounded by a spurned admirer in a shooting spree that left seven people dead says she was so afraid of the man she moved three times and sought a court order of protection
laura black, 26, who police say was the target of tuesday's shootings at esl inc., was haunted for four years by unwanted advances from richard w. farley, a former co-worker, her lawyer said. black was one of four people injured in the siege
black had asked a court to order farley, 39, to never bother her again, but she was shot and seriously wounded in her office the day before her hearing, authorities said
i have been afraid of what this man might do to me if i file this action,'' she said in her filing with the court. ``however, i am now at the end of my rope.''
in the filing, black said she obtained an unlisted phone number and moved three times, but farley continued calling her at work, driving by her house and following her to softball games
san jose family court commissioner lois kittle, who issued a temporary order against farley on feb. 2, made it permanent wednesday
this was a consciousness-raising incident,'' she said from the bench in tears. ``it shows pieces of paper do not stop bullets.''
charges were being prepared against farley, who was being held in the santa clara county jail in san jose, prosecutor alan nudelman said wednesday. police capt. al scott said he expected them to include multiple counts of homicide, attempted murder and assault with a deadly weapon
a portrait of farley as a man with a deadly obsession but no apparent criminal background or pattern of job problems emerged from comments by authorities, neighbors and former employers
when police searched a motor home owned by farley, they found a stockpile of guns and ammunition, along with cans of gasoline, scott said
he had a lot of guns and a lot of gun knowledge _ apparently a lifetime hobby,'' the captain said
police say farley was a texas native who never married, served 11 years in the navy with an honorable discharge, and started at esl, a silicon valley defense contractor, in november 1977. it was there that he met black
when farley failed to get dates with black, he began living in a fantasy world, black's attorney, mary bird, said. farley took pictures of black and used them to ``document'' their make-believe life, bird said
neighbors said farley, who lived in a dilapidated cottage with peeling paint, was a loner who never said hello to anyone
farley was fired in may 1986 from his $36,000-a-year job as a software development engineer after sending a letter threatening black's life, said jerry deruntz, a company manager
the attack, said scott and lt. ruben grijalva, who negotiated the gunman's surrender, was farley's way of ``making a point'' that he wouldn't tolerate being spurned by black or laughed at by other esl employees
he was in love with her from the first moment he saw her,'' said grijalva. ``it was her smile.''
after being fired, farley found other computer industry jobs, and his current employer, sunnyvale-based covalent systems, released a statement wednesday saying his work was satisfactory and there was ``no indication whatsoever of problems.''
at esl, which does such work as outfitting military spy planes, president robert kohler met with about 2,000 grieving employees outside the plant wednesday. he said the deaths were ``like losing members of your own family.''
the company said the shootings did not result from any lapse of security. scott agreed, noting that farley gained access by blasting his way through a computer-controlled door
the building where the shootings took place was closed wednesday, but other buildings at esl were open
black suffered chest, shoulder and spine injuries in the shooting
killed were joe silva, 43, of sunnyvale; buddy williams, 23, san jose; glenda moritz, 27, sunnyvale; ron reed, 26, sunnyvale; helen laparter, 49, sunnyvale; lawrence j. kane, 46, san jose; and ron doney, 36, manteca
injured in addition to black were richard townsley, 44, of san jose, wounded in the chest, arm, leg and hand; gregory scott, 39, of san jose, shrapnel wounds to the face; and patty marcotte of san jose, who broke her forearm trying to break a window to escape
lots of folks head for the top of the empire state building when they visit new york
but australian craig logan, who took his first trip to the top on wednesday, did it the hard way. he ran
it wasn't too bad, really,'' said logan, a 26-year-old pastry chef from melbourne after he won the 11th annual empire state building run-up. still, he said, ``it gets a bit boring, going around and around and around.''
logan, who was married three weeks ago, said he won the chance to compete in the empire state building run-up by winning a similar event last august in a 56-story hotel in melbourne
that one felt harder,'' he said. he attributed his victory in part to being the first man into the stairwell _ no small advantage, considering the crunch of bodies that followed him
logan, who finished in 11 minutes, 29 seconds, led a field of 79 men and 27 women who thundered up the stairwell to the top of the 102-story building for glory, fitness and the first-place prize of a computer
eleven minutes after logan crossed the finish line, along came navy airman william savage, no. 77 of the 79 men. savage ran and walked to the top
i didn't feel bad,'' he said, assessing his race afterward. ``i was just dying.''
savage, who is assigned to the aircraft carrier john f. kennedy in norfolk, va., said he grew up in cold springs, ky., where the tallest building is about four stories ``and that's a barn.''
so it was quite a thrill to be at the top of the empire state building, with all of new york spread out beneath hazy blue skies. savage, 29, is no neophyte to athletic competition or to new york city _ he competed last year in the new york marathon and runs 140 miles a week
but i was still dying,'' he said, grinning wildly in defeat
winner logan finished just a few yards ahead of joseph kenny, a u.s. air force physician from cheyenne, wyo
the top women's finisher was olympic marathon hopeful janine aiello of san francisco, whose time of 13 minutes, 43 seconds, was 28 seconds off her women's record in the event, set in 1985
ms. aiello interrupted her olympic training to compete for the fifth time in the empire state building event. ``it feels great,'' she said. ``my mom was here, my aunts from new york. it was just so great to see their faces.''
an 81-year-old widow in failing health has pleaded guilty to wounding her retarded son in a bungled mercy killing attempt she said was necessary because she loved him too much to leave him behind
sometimes, a mother's love puts people in strange situations,'' circuit judge william d. block said before sentencing geraldine m. sagel of ingleside to 30 months of probation
ms. sagel is required to live in the round lake beach nursing home that has been her home since her arrest in october, but she will be allowed supervised visits with her son, block said
her son jack, 51, lives at the waukegan developmental center. authorities said ms. sagel's bullet went through his shoulder instead of his heart
i am very sorry that it ever happened,'' the wheelchair-bound widow said before her sentencing on a charge of aggravated battery wednesday. ``i didn't want to leave him behind. i was going blind, and my health was failng by the day, and i was afraid that being the way he is, that he would be at the mercy of the world
i didn't want that, your honor,'' she told the judge. ``i love him too much for that. i think you can understand that.''
oh, i think anyone with children can understand that,'' block replied
ms. sagel could have been sentenced to a maximum of 53 years in prison
a grand jury declined to indict her on the more serious charge of attempted murder, which carries a mandatory prison sentence of six to 30 years
i don't think society can condone what she did,'' said prosecutor michael j. waller said. ``but you can empathize with her feelings. i don't have any qualms about the outcome.''
ms. sagel was a race-car driver in the 1920s, a dancer at the 1934 chicago world's fair and says she was the first woman to skydive from a bi-plane. she said she spent most of her life caring for her son because she did not trust anyone else
the state is paying for her son's care now, and ms. sagel will live on money from the sale of her small house, her lawyer said. 0727</first> statement. picks up 7th graf pvs, bgng: america's</note>
u.s. soldiers and diplomats will face leaner times next year under what president reagan today called ``an essential minumum program'' for national security
the trillion-dollar budget reagan sent to capitol hill today will require the pentagon to thin ranks and scrap some weapons, like the midgetman missile now under development and 16 frigates already at sea. the state department may be forced to close some overseas missions, but those have not been announced yet
the budget calls for a $294 billion ceiling for military outlays, up from 1988 outlays of $285.4 billion, but the increase is less than half the estimated 4.3 percent inflation rise this year
state department spending is proposed to rise 2 percent above 1988 levels, to $1.74 billion. but a weaker dollar and inflation abroad have raised the costs of diplomacy, meaning the government may lay off personnel as some foreign outposts are shut
the proposals for national security contained in this budget represent an essential minimum program for keeping america safe and honoring our commitments to our friends and allies,'' reagan said in a statement
anything less would jeopardize not only our national security _ and that of our friends and allies _ but also would dim the prospects for further negotiated agreements with our adversaries,'' reagan said
the budget plans stand in sharp contrast to the military buildup of the first two years of the reagan administration, when defense spending increased by 12 percent and 13 percent
reagan repeated his assertion that a mightier military strengthened his hand in diplomacy, as well
weapons systems have been modernized and upgraded. we are recruiting and retaining higher caliber personnel. the readiness, training and morale of our troops have been improved significantly'' since the beginning of the reagan administration in 1981, the president said
because we are stronger, enormous progress has been achieved in arms reduction talks with the soviet union,'' he said
austerity in the proposed budget for the fiscal year beginning next oct. 1 is forcing the pentagon to plan on reducing the number of men and women under arms by 34,000, to a force level of 2,172,000, according to the budget. reserve strength will remain at 1.7 million
the air force will bear the brunt of the personnel cuts, losing 23,000 airmen, with the army losing 8,600 soldiers; the marines, 2,900
the pentagon will drum out an additional 10,000 civilians from a worldwide staff of 1,102,000, according to the documents
the cuts are expected to save $1.4 billion in personnel costs. more personnel savings could be realized if congress torpedoes a planned 4.3 percent pay increase
america's nuclear muscle may sag some. pentagon planners want to cancel development of the single-warhead mobile midgetman missile. but many in congress prefer deploying the midgetman to devising a way to move the mx missile by rail as a means of reducing soviet ability to hit it in a first strike
defense secretary frank carlucci is expected to ask for between $100 million and $200 million to keep the midgetman just barely alive. air force generals argue they can save more than $2 billion next year and $39 billion in the future by canceling the midgetman, according to administration officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity
the pentagon also is expected to save $786 million by canceling its anti-satellite missile program; congress already has banned tests of the device for three years
the navy's hopes for a 600-ship fleet may be pushed beyond the horizon as that service readies mothballs for 10 frigates of the garcia class and six frigates of the brooke class built in the early 1970s. sailors from those ships will go to other vessels, saving the navy from personnel cuts, except for the marine corps
on the diplomatic front, the state department may be headed back to the straits it faced last september, when a revenue shortfall of $60 million prompted secretary of state george p. shultz to forecast the elimination of 1,270 jobs and the closing of more than a dozen embassies and consulates abroad
congress gave the state department an extra $60 million for the current year
inmates angry over the conduct of searches at the rikers island city jail ransacked a dormitory, but surrendered peacefully this morning after guards using tear gas and batons forced one group out
four inmates and four guards were injured, but not seriously, said richard j. koehler, city commissioner of correction
the riot in the anna m. kross center, which houses 2,700 inmates, started at midnight and was over by 3:30 a.m., he said. most of the 550 inmates involved were state prisoners in jail for parole violations, koehler said
the inmates heavily damaged 12 dormitories, which house about 50 inmates each, and 350 state inmates will have to be transferred out of the city. they are being held in the gymnasium and other common areas until they can be moved
the inmates shattered chairs, tore apart doors and ripped beds from the walls, using the pieces of broken furniture to smash all the lights, he said
we lost about 600 beds,'' koehler said at a news conference in a trailer outside the prison gates. he could not estimate the cost of the damage and said it would take several days to repair it
the riot apparently was sparked by a weapons search wednesday morning, during which seven state inmates had to be taken out of the dormitories ``because they objected to the search and interfered,'' koehler said
those inmates were returned wednesday night to the dormitories, where tensions were already high due to a stabbing earlier in the day
at midnight wednesday, inmates in the four dormitories on the top floor began piling their beds and lockers against the door, keeping guards out. inmates in the four dormitories on each of the other two floors followed suit
no hostages were taken, but when supervising warden james t. garvey jr. arrived to discuss the prisoners' grievances they refused to talk and began breaking out of the dormitories into the facility's hallways. at that point, garvey decide to use force, koehler said
tear gas was fired into one dormitory. then 200 officers armed with batons and wearing plastic helmets and padded jackets moved into the room and began physically removing the inmates. the inmates fought bac with chair legs, broken glass and other weapons made from the shattered furniture, koehler said
after the fight, the inmates in the other 11 dormitories agreed to talk to the warden and the barricades came down around 3:30 a.m., he said
inmates complained that guards are using unnecessary force in weapons searches, koehler said
koehler and robert kasanof, chairman of the city board of correction, blamed the state prison system for the disturbance
this is in my view a state riot which has been exported to the city of new york,'' kasanof said. ``these are long-term prisoners for the most part, for whom the city prisons are ill-designed and for whom the state prisons are well-designed.''
the city's prison system is currently at 101 percent of capacity with more than 15,000 prisoners, about 11,000 of them at rikers, koehler said. statement.</note>
presidential hopefuls looking to recover from poor showings or to get ahead going into super tuesday are stumping in minnesota and south dakota, which offer the next big contests before the march 8 cluster of primaries and caucuses
for illinois sen. paul simon, minnesota's precinct caucuses and south dakota's primary could make or break his democratic presidential bid, although simon backed off from a statement that he would drop out if he lost in both states
if i don't win either minnesota or south dakota, i'm going to drop out of the race. i don't want to just continue indefinitely running second or third,'' simon had said early wednesday. but he later told reporters, ``we're now hedging on that because of the reaction we've been getting from around the country.''
new york rep. jack kemp, in desperate need of a showing above third place, also headed for minnesota wednesday
democrat richard gephardt left new hampshire and flew straight to south dakota wednesday in an urgent search for a primary victory to make good his claim that his party's race is a two-man contest between him and massachusetts gov. michael dukakis
dukakis, the top democratic vote-getter in new hampshire, has waged the most aggressive campaign of the democrats in minnesota and has a strong campaign in south dakota
it gives us a tremendous shot in the arm,'' dukakis' minnesota campaign director pat forciea said of the new hampshire win
but simon was staking his claim too
the place where my natural roots are is right here in hubert humphrey land,'' simon said
hamilton thompson, simon's minnesota campaign manager, said his campaign's polling shows that 30 percent to 40 percent of minnesotans who have attended caucuses in the past are undecided
additionally, he said, the polling suggests simon is the second choice of many jackson supporters, and he expects some could come over to simon if they decide jackson can't win the race
gephardt, who spent the most time campaigning in south dakota, and dukakis were believed to have the best chances in that state, according to state party leaders. simon also was considered to have strong support in south dakota, party officials said
kemp has one of the best-organized republican campaigns in minnesota. while his state campaign chairwoman, evie axdahl, expressed confidence that he'll do well, she acknowledged that his showing could be affected by ``wild card'' pat robertson, the former television evangelist who has fared well in earlier caucus states
senate gop leader bob dole of kansas campaigned extensively in both states, while vice president george bush made at least nine appearances in south dakota but didn't campaign at all in minnesota
prior to the iowa caucuses, republican insiders said they expected dole and kemp to run a close 1-2 in minnesota. but robertson's surprise second-place showing in iowa raised his supporters' expectations _ and his opponents' fears _ that he could do better than expected in the state
dole and dukakis have spent substantially more than their opponents in the two states, according to reports filed with the federal election commission
the democratic events in both states are occurring earlier than national party rules allow, and the states were embroiled for months in a heated dispute with the national party
under an agreement with national party officials, south dakota's democratic primary results are officially non-binding. however, state party officials say the delegates selected at a march 12 statewide caucus will be be apportioned according to the popular vote
the agreement minnesota democrats reached with the national party requires that a presidential preference poll taken at the precinct caucuses be kept secret until 5 p.m. on march 8
however, minnesota secretary of state joan growe plans to report caucus-night results from both the democratic and republican events. quotes from tv appearance this morning. subs last graf to correct, not all directors from europe, one from canada.</note>
the last emperor'' garnered nine academy award nominations, but this year's list of oscar contenders is a diverse lot of epics, comedies and dramas, hardly a one-picture sweep
the comedy-romance ``broadcast news'' received seven nominations wednesday, and the wartime drama ``empire of the sun'' showed up six times in the academy of motion picture arts and sciences list
the six nominations also received by the psycho-thriller ``fatal attraction'' and the offbeat love yarn ``moonstruck'' reflect the academy's orientation toward commercial hits rather than domination by artsy movies
fatal attraction'' took in $129 million at the box office and ``the untouchables,'' with four nominations, brought in $76 million
at the same time, the good showing by ``the last emperor'' indicates the academy looks beyond what succeeds commercially, said the film's director, bernardo bertolucci
it's fantastic to have with me all my people, my collaborators who shared with me the chinese adventure,'' said bertolucci, who noted his associates on the movie, the life story of china's last emperor, were a mixture of italians, britons and chinese
what i think is a great satisfaction for me today is to see that hollywood has given this recognition. ... the nomination already tells that there was for hollywood a great proof of non-chauvinism. .. none of these nominated (for best director) is from hollywood,'' he said today on abc-tv's ``good morning, america.''
best director nominee adrian lyne said he ``finds it tough to believe'' people really liked his movie, ``fatal attraction.''
i got up early, fearing and trembling, watching the live thing on cnn,'' lyne said. when the movie came up in category after category, ``i was bouncing up and down with my wife and the dog.''
broadcast news,'' set in a television news bureau, brought nominations for stars william hurt, holly hunter and albert brooks
i'm on my way out to see the movie again to see what they are talking about,'' brooks said
james brooks was nominated for producing the picture and for writing it, but, startlingly, not for directing it
the nominations for ``empire of the sun'' also didn't include one in the directing category for steven spielberg, who has yet to win an oscar for best director despite being the top moneymaking director of all time
his film also was not among the best picture nominees: ``broadcast news,'' ``fatal attraction,'' ``hope and glory,'' ``the last emperor'' and ``moonstruck.''
two-time winners jack nicholson and meryl streep were nominated for their roles as depression-era low-lifers in ``ironweed.''
best actor nominees also included michael douglas for ``wall street''; hurt, ``broadcast news''; marcello mastroianni, ``dark eyes,'' and robin williams, ``good morning, vietnam.''
it made me not only proud of our film `wall street,' but it reminded me of what a wonderful part oliver stone created,'' said douglas
joining miss streep in the best actress list were cher, ``moonstruck''; glenn close, ``fatal attraction''; miss hunter, ``broadcast news;'' sally kirkland, ``anna.''
sean connery, who never was nominated in his many appearances as james bond, placed among the nominees for supporting actor for his role as the steely chicago cop in ``the untouchables.'' others in the race: albert brooks, ``broadcast news''; morgan freeman, ``street smart''; vincent gardenia, ``moonstruck''; denzel washington, ``cry freedom.''
all of the supporting actresses were first-time nominees: norma aleandro, ``gaby _ a true story''; anne archer, ``fatal attraction''; olympia dukakis, ``moonstruck''; anne ramsey, ``throw momma from the train''; ann sothern, ``the whales of august.''
like my cousin, i'm in the running and now i'm waiting for `super monday' in april,'' said dukakis, referring to the april 11 academy awards ceremonies. hours earlier, massachusetts gov. michael dukakis won the new hampshire democratic presidential primary
none of the five best-director nominees are from the united states: lyne and john boorman, ``hope and glory,'' from great britain; bertolucci, ``the last emperor,'' from italy; norman jewison, ``moonstruck,'' from canada and lasse hallstrom, ``my life as a dog,'' from sweden
boris n. yeltsin, the outspoken former protege of soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev, was ousted from the ruling politburo today, tass reported
two rising stars in the communist party hierarchy were named non-voting politburo members, the official soviet news agency said
the policy-making central committee made the changes after gorbachev told the party leadership that his efforts to modernize the economy and soviet society did not constitute a retreat from socialism
we are not retreating one step from socialism, marxism-leninism, everything which has been won and created by the people,'' tass quoted gorbachev as saying
we are striving in the present conditions to revive the leninist look of the new system, to rid it of the accumulations and deformations, of everything that shackled society and prevented it from realizing the potential of socialism in full measure,'' he said
tass said the central commiittee meeting ``freed comrade b.n. yeltsin from his duties as a candidate member of the politburo.''
yeltsin, 57, was brought into the ruling body by gorbachev in february 1986 and named moscow party boss. but he fell from favor last fall when he complained to the central committee at its last meeting that an entrenched bureaucracy had stalled gorbachev's efforts to modernize soviet society
yeltsin earlier had been removed from his party post in the soviet capital but was given a ministerial job in the government's construction bureaucracy, leaving his political future in doubt
the move to drive him from power was seen as an indication the party remains unwilling to tolerate criticism in key areas, despite gorbachev's program of ``glasnost,'' or openness, which has encouraged freer expression of ideas
he said his program is, instead, designed to root out dogmatism and bureaucracy
tass said georgy razumovsky, 52, a gorbachev protege who has been handling party personnel matters for almost two years, would take a seat as a non-voting member of the politburo. he has been a secretary of the central committee, a key post in the communist party apparatus
also named to candidate, or non-voting, membership was yuri maslyukov, 50, who this month was named chairman of the state planning committee, the body that historically has controlled the nation's planned economy
the party chief acknowledged that his program of ``perestroika,'' or restructuring, has caused some confusion. perestroika seeks to decentralize control of industry and make plant managers responsible for their own products in an effort to streamline production, improve quality and make consumer goods available to the soviet public
the tass account said some people have questioned whether ``the new, unaccustomed forms of economic management and social life'' actually constitute a revision of fundamental marxist-leninist teaching
the awareness has been established now that perestroika is an objectively necessary stage of the development of soviet society, whose essence is a transition to its new qualitative state,'' gorbachev said
on wednesday, yegor k. ligachev outlined plans for an overhaul of the country's school system, saying the rigid and centralized soviet bureaucracy must ease its control over schools to allow more flexibility at the local level
ligachev is considered to rank second behind gorbachev
western reporters are not allowed to attend the meeting of the more than 300 members of the policy-making body. the committee is composed of top national officials, regional and local party bosses, and communists from the armed forces, government ministries, industry and agriculture. suicide</head>
a 17-year-old chemistry student committed suicide by injecting a homemade cyanide solution into his veins, and seven people became ill after apparently handling the chemicals or breathing fumes, police said
the youth mixed up a substance like that used in execution chambers, said lt. calvin latsis, salt lake county fire hazardous materials officer. ``he knew exactly what he was doing.''
sheriff's deputy dan haggen was listed in serious condition at st. mark's hospital today. fire officials said haggen's illness was compounded by an allergic reaction to a cyanide antidote
three other sheriff's officers also became ill several hours after going to the teen-ager's home wednesday morning. they and the deceased youth's parents and a 10-year-old sister were treated and released
the deputies apparently did not recognize the youth had died from cyanide, and had no idea they were in danger while in the room with his body, latsis said. about four hours later they began experiencing headaches, nausea and tightness of the chest, said tom bogle, fire battalion chief
cyanide poisoning can occur from either breathing fumes or absorption through the skin. gas had permeated the home when deputies arrived, but they and others in the home may also have handled some of the chemicals, the fire officials said
the 17-year-old, whose name was not released, was an advanced chemistry student at his high school. he died after creating a lethal dose of cyanide from several chemicals and injecting it into his veins, latsis said
sheriff's deputies said the youth left a note indicating that he was not getting out of life what he was putting into it
when cyanide was suspected in the illness of the deputies, family members were evacuated
here is a list of the 13 full and seven candidate members of the ruling communist party politburo, including their ages, dates of appointment and description of responsibilities:
mikhail s. gorbachev, 56, october 1980, soviet leader as party general secretary since march 11, 1985
andrei a. gromyko, 78, april 1973, named president in july 1985 after long service as foreign minister
nikolai i. ryzhkov, 58, april 1985, named premier sept. 27, 1985, succeeding nikolai a. tikhonov
vitaly i. vorotnikov, 62, december 1983, chairman of russian federation council of ministers
lev n. zaikov, 64, march 1986, specialist on defense industry, economics, replaced boris n. yeltsin as moscow party chief in november 1987
yegor k. ligachev, 67, april 1985, central commmittee secretary in charge of ideology
viktor p. nikonov, 58, june 1987, central committee agriculture secretary
nikolai n. slyunkov, 58, june 1987, party chief in the byelorussian republic, member of supreme soviet presidium
mikhail s. solomentsev, 74, december 1983, central committee secretary for party control
viktor m. chebrikov, 64, april 1985, head of committee for state security (kgb) and holds rank of general
eduard a. shevardnadze, 60, july 1985, named foreign minsiter, succeeding gromyko
vladimir v. shcherbitsky, 70, november 1979, party chief in the republic of the ukraine, member supreme soviet presidium
alexander n. yakovlev, 64, june 1987, central committee propaganda chief, former ambassador to canada
yuri d. maslyukov, 50, february 1988, replaced nikolai v. talyzin as chairman of the powerful state planning committee, deputy chairman council of ministers
georgy p. razumovsky, 52, february 1988, central committee secretary, chief of department for party organizational work
pyotr n. demichev, 70, november 1964, firstpreputy chairman of supreme soviet presidium
vladimir i. dolgikh, 63, may 1982, central committee secretary for heavy industry
yuri f. solovev, 62, march 1986, leningrad regional party chief, member supreme soviet presidium
nikolai v. talyzin, 58, october 1985, former chairman of the state planning committee and current first deputy premier and chairman of the government's social development bureau
dmitri t. yazov, 64, june 1987, defense minister holding rank of army general, former commander far east military district
john demjanjuk's wife and children shouted ``you're liars'' to prosecutors today after the defense rested in the former ohio autoworker's nazi war crimes trial
demjanjuk's daughter, irene nishnic, son john jr. and wife, vera, walked onto the stage of the converted movie theater where the year-old trial was held and shouted at the prosecutors
security guards quickly ushered them out of the courtroom. the sobs of the women could be heard, followed by an angry expletive by john jr
demjanjuk, 67, appeared surprised, but did not otherwise react. the ukranian-born demjanjuk is accused of being ``ivan the terrible,'' a brutal guard who operated gas chambers that killed 850,000 jews at the treblinka death camp in nazi-occupied poland in 1942 and 1943
he was stripped of his u.s. citizenship in 1981 and was extradited to israel to stand trial for war crimes. demjanjuk insists he is innocent and a victim of mistaken identity
the three-judge panel is expected to issue its verdict in april
the emotional outburst came after defense attorney john gill ended his final arguments and prosecutor michael shaked rose to respond to accusations that the prosecution withheld from the defense documents that would exonerate demjanjuk
shaked said the prosecution had provided all material to the defense ``on a silver platter,'' and even translated it
john jr., 22, rose angrily from his front row seat, walked onto the stage, turned and said: ``you're a liar.'' he was followed by mrs. nishnic, 28, who shook her fist and tearfully cried: ``you're lying.''
mrs. demjanjuk then rose, and in a heavily accented voice shaking with emotion, shouted: ``you're a liar! you liar. shame on you. shame on you. you have no heart _ nothing!'' she was pulled from the stage by two security guards
after the family's outburst, presiding judge dov levine told shaked and the three-member defense team: ``you both ought to do away with this bitterness because ... we believe there was fair treatment.''
demjanjuk's family said, however, they did not believe demjanjuk had received a fair trial
it's all been lies from beginning to end,'' mrs. nishnic told the associated press tearfully after the trial, her hands shaking
we just didn't expect the trial to end like that, to close with statements that aren't true. the defense should have been the ones to have the last say,'' she said
john jr. said the family believed statements from 21 camp survivors who did not identify demjanjuk as ``ivan,'' had been withheld by the u.s. justice department and the prosecution had not intervened to help
it's been a set-up from begining to end,'' he said
resting the defense case, gill called on judges to recognize the prosecution had not ``presented the proof necessary to convict this innocent man.''
your honors, john demjanjuk's life is in your hands,'' gill said. ``i leave you with an irish blessing: may god hold you in the palm of his hand while you deliberate the fate of my client, john demjanjuk.''
levine said the judges would give the date of a verdict 10 days before it was to be announced. a separate sentencing hearing will be held about one month after the verdict if he is convicted
demjanjuk faces a maximum penalty of death
here is the text of president reagan's budget message to congress
to the congress of the united states:
as we consider the state of our nation today, we have much cause for satisfaction
thanks to sound policies, steadfastly pursued during the past seven years, america is at peace, and our people are enjoying the longest peacetime economic expansion in our nation's history
by reordering priorities so that we spend more on national security and less on wasteful or unnecessary federal programs, we have made freedom more secure around the world and have been able to negotiate with our adversaries from a position of strength
by pursuing market-oriented economic policies, we have uncorked the genie of american enterprise and created new businesses, more jobs, improved production, and widespread prosperity
and we have done all this without neglecting the poor, the elderly, the infirm, and the unfortunate among us
let me note a few of the highlights from our administration's record of accomplishment:
_the current expansion, now in its 63rd month, has outlasted all previous peacetime expansions in u.s. history. business investment and exports are rising in real terms, foreshadowing continued economic growth this year and next
_since this expansion began, 15 million new jobs have been created, while the unemployment rate has fallen by 5 percentage points _ to 5.7 percent, the lowest level in nearly a decade. by comparison, employment in other developed countries has not grown significantly, and their unemployment rates have remained high
_inflation, which averaged 10.4 percent annually during the four years before i came to office, has averaged less than a third of that during the past five years
_the prime interest rate was 21.5 percent just before i came into office; it is now 8.5 percent; the mortgage rate, which was 14.9 percent, is now down to 10.2 percent
_since 1981, the amount of time spent by the public filling out forms required by the federal government has been cut by hundreds of millions of hours annually, and the number of pages of regulations published annually in the federal register has been reduced by over 45 percent
_between 1981 and 1987, changes in the federal tax code, including a complete overhaul in 1986, have made the tax laws more equitable, significantly lowered earned income tax rates for many individuals and corporations, and eliminated the need for 4.3 million low-income individuals or families to file tax forms
_at the same time, real after-tax personal income has risen 15 percent during the past five years, increasing our overall standard of living
the manufacturers of about 60,000 high-efficiency gas furnaces sold nationwide will inspect and repair units that may have become corroded, the consumer product safety commission said today
the repairs are being offered by arkla, inc., of shreveport, la., and preway industries of evansville, inc., the commission said. the furnaces made by the two companies have been sold under several trade names. those in the repair program include century reclaimer i and comfort-aire reclaimer i sold by heat controller inc.; elite sold by trane cac inc.; elite sold by general electric; some arcoaire units sold by arco comfort products inc.; some comfortmaker furnaces sold by climate control products, and recuperative i sold by arkla industries
arco comfort products and climate control products are part of snyder general corp
the companies have received 387 complaints of corrosion in the furnaces. such corrosion could permit the escape of carbon monoxide, an odorless gas that can cause illness or death in large amounts, the safety commission warned. signs of carbon monoxide poisoning include flu-like symptoms of headache, nausea, stomach upset and drowsiness
the furnaces have been found to be susceptible to corrosion when exposed to chlorine, fluorine, salt, paint stripper, fabric softeners, water softeners, bleach and adhesives
the commission said that the two companies will inspect the furnaces at no charge and, if necessary, retrofit them with upgraded components or replace them on a pro rata basis
consumers needing more information can call preway toll-free at 1-800-237-5207 or the safety commission at 1-800-638-2772
_the outburst of spending for means-tested entitlement programs that occurred in the 1970s has been curbed. eligibility rules have been tightened to retarget benefits to the truly needy, and significant progress has been made in improving the efficiency and effectiveness of these programs
_we have begun the process of putting other entitlement programs on a more rational basis. this includes medicare, which was converted from cost-plus financing to a system that encourages competition and holds down costs
_federal spending for domestic programs other than entitlements has been held essentially flat over the last five years, while basic benefits for the poor, the elderly, and others in need of federal assistance have been maintained. this is a dramatic improvement over the unsustainably rapid annual growth of these programs that prevailed before 1981
_the social security system has been rescued from the threat of insolvency
_our defense capabilities have been strengthened. weapons systems have been modernized and upgraded. we are recruiting and retaining higher caliber personnel. the readiness, training, and morale of our troops have been improved significantly. because we are stronger, enormous progress has been achieved in arms reduction negotiations with the soviet union
_federal agencies have undertaken a major management improvement program called ``reform '88.'' this program has two main objectives: to operate federal agencies in a more businesslike manner, and to reduce waste, fraud, and abuse in government programs
_some functions of the federal government _ such as financing waste treatment plants _ are being transferred back to state and local governments. in other instances _ such as water projects _ state and local governments are bearing a larger share of costs, leading to more rational decision-making in these areas
_finally, we have made real progress in privatizing federal activities that are more appropriate for the private sector than government. notable examples include the sale of conrail, the long-term lease of national and dulles airports, and the auction of billions of dollars in loan portfolios
_related to this shift away from the federal budget are our achievements on cost sharing and user fees, shifting the cost of projects and programs where appropriate to non-federal sources
while we have reason to be proud of this record of achievement, we must be vigilant in addressing threats to continued prosperity
one major threat is the federal deficit
if the deficit is not curbed by limiting the appetite of government, we put in jeopardy what we have worked so hard to achieve
larger deficits brought on by excessive spending could precipitate rising inflation, interest rates, and unemployment
we cannot permit this to happen, and we will not
a soviet deputy foreign minister said today that the superpower arms talks in geneva had deteriorated and that the united states was blocking agreement on cuts in intercontinental nuclear arms
it is difficult to forecast with a sufficient degree of certainty how these negotiations will proceed further,'' vladimir petrovsky said in a speech to the 40-nation conference on disarmament
he said the soviet union hopes that the visit of secretary of state george shultz to moscow next week ``will provide the necessary clarity as to the further intentions'' of the u.s. side regarding the arms talks in geneva
the two sides have said they are trying to conclude a treaty on reducing their intercontinental, or strategic, nuclear forces by 50 percent in time for an expected u.s.-soviet summit meeting in may or june. but both sides have said a summit could be held even if a treaty were not ready for signing
petrovsky said the soviet union is ``convinced'' that a treaty could still be prepared in time for signing at a summit in the first half of this year. but he said, ``a whole set of rather difficult issues remains to be solved.''
he reiterated the soviet position that the main issue still to be resolved is the question of compliance with the 1972 anti-ballistic missile treaty
senior u.s. arms control adviser edward rowny said monday in boston that the soviets were using delaying tactics at the geneva talks. he said the soviets could speed up progress on strategic arms reductions by abandoning their efforts to link such reductions to u.s. strategic defense initiative research
petrovsky said the u.s. position at the talks ``impedes reaching agreement on the reductions in strategic offensive arms.'' for example, he said, the united states was refusing to include limits on sea-launched cruise missiles because they say such limits would be difficult to verify
this being so, the situation at the space and nuclear talks has now noticeably deteriorated,'' said petrovsky
petrovsky also suggested that the conference on disarmament, the world's only multilateral disarmament negotiating forum, start negotiating on eliminating nuclear weapons in all countries which possess them
at a press conference, he said ``the time has come'' to take into account the nuclear arsenals of china, britain and france, as well as of the united states and soviet union, which are already negotiating reductions in their forces
the soviet union suggests to start immediately identifying in practice the substance of possible multilateral measures in this field,'' he said
as much as $8 million from a $52 million u.s. currency shipment to argentina was lost as the bags of cash were being transferred from a jet to an armored brink's inc. truck in brazil, the daily news reported today
two 6-foot-long sacks of cash, believed to contain $4 million each, were reported lost, the newspaper said. the cash was being shipped by the federal reserve bank. neither it nor brink's, which was providing security, would identify the customer
thirteen sacks were loaded aboard a regularly scheduled varig airlines 747 at kennedy international airport on feb. 4., the newspaper said. varig is an argentine carrier
the bags were lost after the jet landed at rio de janeiro international airport, and the money was being loaded into an armored truck which was to transfer it to a flight to argentina, the news said
the loss is under investigation in the united states, by brink's here and in brazil, and by airlines security and the police in brazil and argentina,'' said marvin moss, a brink's spokesman at the company's darien, conn., offices. ``in reality, we don't know where the loss occurred.''
he put the loss at ``more than $5 million,'' but the news said sources told it the loss was $8 million
bart sotnick, a spokesman for the federal reserve, would say only that ``we gave an amount of money for transportation for a bank customer.''
the fed deals with ``our counterparts,'' central banks of other nations and international banking institutions, sotnick said
according to the newspaper, the money went by brink's truck from the fed office in manhattan to kennedy airport. it was loaded into the bulk cargo hold of varig airlines flight no. 861 with security by brink's
in rio de janeiro, four of the bags were placed on a cart that somehow was wheeled into a baggage room, said sources who were not identified by the newspaper. when the cart was found, two of the sacks, which are so heavy they require two men to lift one, were missing
the rest of the money was shipped to buenos aires, argentina. figures; pick up 2nd graf pvs bgng ``simon began...</note>
sen. paul simon will skip tonight's democratic presidential debate in texas to devote ``complete attention'' to minnesota and south dakota ahead of caucuses and primaries in those states next tuesday, an aide said today
the debate in dallas is the first major event on the calendar prior to the pivotal super tuesday round of contests
though simon edged away from his statement wednesday that he had to win either minnesota or south dakota to stay in the race, it is apparent the illinois senator is banking his future hopes on good showings in those states
simon concentrated on raising money wednesday night and thursday, picking up about $150,000 in chicago and moving on to st. louis this morning
aide david carle said simon collected $250,000 last week and hoped to gather another $400,000 in a series of fund-raisers this week
carle said simon has already made 10 trips to texas and saw no need to attend tonight's debate
simon began wednesday telling television interviewers that he had to finish first in tuesday's minnesota caucuses or south dakota primary to stay in the contest for his party's nomination
later, addressing an airport rally _ at which about 100 supporters greeted him with signs urging ``hang tough, paul'' _ simon said he was disappointed in his second-place finish in the iowa caucuses feb. 8 and in his third-place finish in new hampshire's primary tuesday
those losses, he said, came by a total of fewer than 6,000 votes
it's like getting on the one-foot line, and you don't quite score that touchdown,'' he said, adding, ``i have to win next tuesday in either minnesota or south dakota.''
by late wednesday night, however, he was telling reporters at a series of fundraisers, ``we're now hedging on that because of the reaction we've been getting from around the country.''
he also said he planned to run in his home-state illinois primary march 15
as for minnesota, simon said he was optimistic about his chances. he told a st. paul news conference that ``the place where my natural roots are (is) right here in hubert humphrey land.''
so far, simon said, he has 35 delegates in the race for the democratic presidential nomination. missouri rep. richard gephardt has 38 and massachusetts gov. michael dukakis has 48, he said
simon finished second in iowa behind gephardt, and third in new hampshire, behind dukakis and gephardt
in terms of delegates, it's almost a three-way tie right now, but you can't continue to run second and third indefinitely _ that's part of reality,'' he said
aides said simon's campaign has debts of about $500,000, with about $200,000 on hand, and expects to raise $300,000 to $400,000 this week, including about $150,000 at fundraisers in chicago and st. louis before heading back to minnesota today
the reagan administration today issued an economic forecast any republican presidential candidate could run on with pride, predicting a record sixth year of peacetime economic growth with no increase in inflation
the administration, which in the past has been derided for its ``rosy scenarios'' of future economic activity, presented an optimistic view that the current expansion will continue into the indefinite future. and it derided initial recession fears from the october stock market crash as ``greatly exaggerated.''
despite the sharp reversal in stock prices, however, the real economy has shown few signs of serious damage,'' the budget forecast stated
while the economic assumptions that underpin the president's 1989 budget are more optimistic than the predictions made by the congressional budget office and most private forecasters, they are not as far from the general consensus as in previous years
indeed, the administration boasts that its economic forecast a year ago, which was also above the general consensus, turned out to be closer to right
the economy, as measured by the gross national product, grew 3.8 percent in 1987, when measured from the fourth quarter of 1986. the administration had predicted 3.2 percent growth
most forecasters failed to anticipate the magnitude of the improvement in the manufacturing sector just then getting under way,'' the budget stated
for 1988, the administration predicts manufacturing will remain a source of strength with export sales continuing to rise because of the weaker dollar
the administration predicts the overall economy will expand at a 2.4 percent annual rate this year with much of that growth coming from the improving trade deficit
this compares to a cb0 growth forecast of 1.8 percent. the cbo forecast is the same as the consensus view of 51 top economists surveyed by blue chip economic indicators, an investment newsletter
among the economic assumptions, the administration predicts:
_gnp growth will rebound in 1989 to a 3.5 percent rate and stay above 3 percent through 1993
_consumer inflation, which rose 4.4 percent last year, will rise by 4.3 percent this year and decline steadily over the next four years to a 2 percent rate in 1993
_unemployment, because of the modest growth, will show no improvement this year, remaining at 5.8 percent at the close of the year, matching the current level. however, the jobless rate will begin declining modestly in future years, dropping to 5.5 percent in 1989
these assumptions provide the basis for the administration's hopes of making further progress in getting the federal budget under control
the 1989 spending plan, reagan's eighth submission to congress, has a valedictory quality about it, reviewing in detail the president's economic goals when he took office in 1981 and trying to explain the reasons for reagan's biggest economic failure, the string of record budget deficits
the administration, as it has in the past, put much of the blame on congress for failing to enact its domestic spending cuts. but the budget also says the 1981-82 deficit played a large role, adding $112 billion to the deficit in 1983 alone
the new budget calls for reducing the federal deficit to $129.5 billion in the fiscal year that begins next oct. 1, down from an actual budget deficit of $150.2 billion in the 1987 fiscal year and an estimated deficit of $146.7 billion for the current fiscal year
the 1987 deficit was originally put at $148 billion but was revised in today's budget document
the 1989 budget estimate is below the target of $136 billion called for in the gramm-rudman deficit-reduction law, but the administration concedes that its estimates in the past have fallen victim to worse-than-expected economic performance
those pitfalls could derail the current plan as well, the administration says, noting that if gnp growth is just 1 percent lower than the administration is forecasting over the next five years it would add $6.3 billion to the 1989 deficit and $66 billion to the 1993 deficit
a minority of economists is predicting an even worse outcome for this year, forecasting the economy will fall into an actual recession
if growth is slower than the administration forecasts, or in a worst-case scenario, the country does enter a recession, then that would mean smaller federal tax revenues and higher spending for such programs as unemployment benefits
the current economic recovery began in december 1982, following the worst recession since the great depression, and is now in its 63rd month, surpassing the old record for a peacetime recovery of 59 months set between 1975 and 1979
the congress acknowledged the pressing need to reduce the deficit when, in december 1985, it enacted the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act, commonly known for its principal sponsors as the gramm-rudman-hollings (g-r-h) act
this act committed both the president and the congress to a fixed schedule of progress toward balancing the budget
in 1987, the budget deficit was $150 billion _ down $71 billion from the record level of $221 billion reached in 1986
this was also a record decline in the deficit
to some extent, however, this improvement represented one-time factors, such as a high level of receipts in the transitional year of tax reform
economic forecasters predicted that without action the 1988 and 1989 deficits would be higher than the 1987 level
in order to prevent this, and to preserve and build upon the 1987 deficit-reduction progress in a realistic fashion, last fall the congress modified the g-r-h act
specifically, it required that the 1988 deficit target be $144 billion and the target for 1989 be $136 billion
last year, members of my administration worked with the leaders of congress to develop a two-year plan of deficit reduction _ the bipartisan budget agreement
one of the major objectives of the budget i am submitting today is to comply with that agreement _ in order to help assure a steady reduction in the deficit until budget balance is achieved
the bipartisan budget agreement reflects give and take on all sides
i agreed to some $29 billion in additional revenues and $13 billion less than i had requested in defense funding over two years
however, because of a willingness of all sides to compromise, an agreement was reached that pared $30 billion from the deficit projected for 1988 and $46 billion from that projected for 1989
in submitting this budget, i am adhering to the bipartisan budget agreement and keeping my part of the bargain
i ask the congress to do the same
this budget does not fully reflect my priorities, nor, presumably, those of any particular member of congress
but the goal of deficit reduction through spending reduction must be paramount
abandoning the deficit reduction compromise would threaten our economic progress and burden future generations
this budget shows that a gradual elimination of the deficit is possible without abandoning tax reform, without cutting into legitimate social programs, without devastating defense, and without neglecting other national priorities
under the bipartisan budget agreement, progress toward a steadily smaller deficit and eventual budget balance will continue, but this projected decline rests on two assumptions: continued economic growth, and implementation of the agreement
if the economy performs as expected, and if the bipartisan budget agreement reflected in this budget is adhered to, the deficit should decline to less than 3 percent of gnp in 1989
for the first time in several years, the national debt as a proportion of gnp will actually fall
reducing the deficit and the debt in this manner would bring our goal of a balanced budget and a reduced burden on future generations much closer to realization
moreover, adherence to the agreement, as reflected in this budget, will ensure the achievement of additional deficit reductions in future years, because in many cases the savings from a given action this year will generate deficit savings in subsequent years
given the good start made in 1987, we have an opportunity this year to put the worst of the deficit problem behind us
the $950,000 parsonage where jim and tammy bakker lived while at ptl will be among eight residences sold to raise money for the ministry
ptl also will hold a fund-raising telethon feb. 29-april 1, or good friday, ptl's bankruptcy trustee said at a hearing wednesday
trustee david clark told bankruptcy judge rufus reynolds: ``we are making good progress in many areas. i am very, very optimistic.''
among eight residences ptl will sell at an april 16 auction are the former tega cay home of the bakkers, appraised at $950,000, and the former lake wylie home of former ptl president richard dortch, appraised at $575,000
clark said he hoped the telethon would generate $4 million. he also estimated the christian television ministry and theme park near fort mill will net about $5.2 million from selling off other property
clark also told the judge the ptl is negotiating its tax status with the internal revenue service
reynolds said: ``let's jump to the bottom line. there is no money in the bank to take care of the closing'' of the chapter 11 bankruptcy proceedings
reynolds advised clark of ``the importance of doing everything possible'' to save the ministry financially. ptl needs about $4.2 million in may and $5.2 million in august to meet requirements of its reorganization
at the hearing, clark introduced a new executive vice president of finance and operations, m.c. ``red'' benton, a certified public accountant and former mayor of winston-salem, n.c
benton said ptl made nearly $3 million during five weeks through the end of january. but while the ministry was pulling in $85,000 per day, it was spending $100,500 per day. in the two weeks ending feb. 13, ptl was bringing in $110,000 a day in revenues but spending $127,000 per day, benton said
the investigation into the case of a black teen-ager who claims she was sexually assaulted by six white men has again reached an impasse with lawyers for the victim saying they will not cooperate with prosecutors
representatives of the victim met with state attorney general robert abrams, the special prosecutor investigating the case, for 12 hours tuesday and wednesday but failed to secure a pledge from abrams that he would personally handle several key aspects of the case
without that, ``we are unable to give him the cooperation that he is demanding of us,'' alton maddox jr., an attorney representing tawana brawley and her family, said at a news conference after wednesday's meeting
there is no way that we can agree that we have, instead of a special prosecutor, a case manager,'' he said. ``we are looking for a special prosecutor to personalize this case.''
abrams said in a statement that he was committed to personal participation in, as well as overall responsibility, for the case. but he said it was too early to make the specific tactical decisions demanded by maddox, attorney c. vernon mason, and activist al sharpton
abrams said the investigation will continue without the cooperation of miss brawley or her attorneys
the two sides have no immediate plans to meet again, said abrams' spokesman, timothy gilles
miss brawley, 16, of wappinger falls, claims she was repeatedly raped and assaulted last november by six white men, one of whom flashed a police badge. she was found four days after her disappearance in a daze, wrapped in a plastic bag. racial epithets had been scrawled on her body
this week's talks followed a meeting feb. 11 between miss brawley's representatives and gov. mario cuomo, which appeared to break a stalemate that had stymied the investigation
previously the representatives had refused to allow miss brawley or her family to cooperate in the probe, saying they didn't think john ryan, the aide abrams had picked to head the investigation, had sufficient experience in civil rights matters
the attorneys later said they had been assured by cuomo that abrams would be ``personally involved'' in the investigation
in the meetings this week the representatives made miss brawley's cooperation conditional on abrams personally conducting certain aspects of the case, including grand jury presentation and direct examination of several witnesses, abrams said
i have indicated that i do not rule out performing any or even all of these roles myself,'' said abrams. ``however, we are far from any trial here, we are far from even solving this case, and these are questions of trial tactics that i and my staff of prosecutors feel cannot in good conscience be made at this time.''
north korean soldiers fired machine guns in the demilitarized zone dividing the korean peninsula, the united nations command said. no injuries were reported
the command said the north koreans opened four rounds of machine-gun fire across the border in the eastern part of the dmz near cholwon wednesday night. the state-run television network, kbs, said north korean soldiers used loudspeakers to declare the shooting was accidental
it was not a provoked firing,'' said command spokesman bill fullerton. ``there were no casualties.''
south korean soldiers did not return fire, fullerton said. he said a joint investigating team of u.s., british and south korean officials had been dispatched to the site. the area is about 70 miles northeast of seoul
south korean officials could not be reached for comment today as government offices were closed for the lunar new year
shooting incidents are occasionally reported along the dmz, a strip of territory that divides communist north korea from the capitalist south. the two koreas have never signed a formal peace treaty since an armistice ended the korean war in 1953
in formulating this budget, i have endeavored to meet national priorities while keeping to the terms of the bipartisan budget agreement and the g-r-h act
in essence, the agreement limits the 1988-to-1989 increase in domestic discretionary program budget authority to 2 percent
to address urgent national priorities insofar as possible within this overall 2 percent limit, my budget proposes that some programs _ such as those for education, drug enforcement, and technology development _ receive larger funding increases, while others are reduced, reformed, or, in some cases, terminated
high-priority programs must be funded adequately
one of our highest priorities is to foster individual success through greater education and training oppoortunities
for example:
_i propose an increase of $656 million over the $16.2 billion appropriated for 1988 for discretionary programs of the department of education. although state and local governments fund most educational activity, federal programs provide crucial aid for the poor, the handicapped, and the educationally disadvantaged
_i have proposed reform of our overcentralized welfare system through state experimentation with innovative alternatives. in addition, my initiative would overhaul current employment and training programs for welfare recipients, and strengthen our national child support enforcement system
_by emphasizing housing vouchers, i would provide housing assistance to 135,500 additional low-income households in 1989 _ 8 percent more than the 125,000 additional households receiving housing subsidies in 1988
_ineffective programs to assist dislocated workers would be replaced by an expanded $1 billion worker readjustment program (wrap) carefully designed to help those displaced from their jobs move quickly into new careers
in addition, i am proposing funds to strengthen u.s. technology and make america more competitive
for example:
_i propose a continued increase in federally supported basic research aimed at longer-term improvements in the nation's productivity and global competitiveness. this budget would double national science foundation support for academic basic research, increase support for training future scientists and engineers, and expedite technology transfer of government-funded research to industry
_i would provide $11.5 billion for space programs, including: essential funding for continued development of america's first permanently manned space station; increased support for improving the performance and reliability of the space shuttle; a major new initiative, the advanced x-ray astrophysics facility, for space science; further support to encourage the commercial development of space; and a new technology effort, project pathfinder, designed to develop technologies to support future decisions on the expansion of human presence and activity beyond earth's orbit, into the solar system
_i also recommend $363 million in 1989 to initiate construction of the superconducting super collider (ssc), including $283 million for construction and $60 million for supporting research and development. the ssc as currently envisaged will be the largest pure science project ever undertaken. it will help keep this country on the cutting edge of high energy physics research until well into the next century
as the presidential candidates head south from iowa and new hampshire, southern political leaders are predicting that super tuesday will broaden the presidential debate into a discussion of issues of national concern
to help focus that debate, the sunbelt institute and the congressional sunbelt caucus released a report wednesday outlining a series of issues important both in the south and in the nation as a whole
the report urges the presidential candidates, for example, to explain how they would combat illegal drugs, eradicate illiteracy, promote energy independence in the face of rising oil imports, reform the welfare system and develop impoverished rural areas
former virginia gov. chuck robb told a news conference that super tuesday will shift the campaign ``from retail to wholesale politics'' by forcing the candidates to address such national issues rather than the more narrow agenda of new hampshire and iowa voters
a total of 20 states, 14 of them in the south, will hold primaries or caucuses on super tuesday, march 8. the 20 states will select 28.2 percent of the delegates to the democratic national convention and 30.3 percent of the delegates to the republican national convention. moynihan</head>
rep. jack kemp's presidential campaign is reacting with amusement to the suggestion by sen. alfonse d'amato, r-n.y., that kemp consider running against sen. daniel p. moynihan, d-n.y, when _ and if _ he drops out of the race for the nation's top job
really?'' kemp spokeswoman mary brunette laughed wednesday when told of d'amato's brainstorm. ``well, that's interesting.''
then, more soberly: ``congressman kemp has absolutely no intention of quitting the presidential race. ... we're in it to the end.''
she said the campaign was gaining momentum, ``and i think it's kind of absurd for sen. d'amato to make that suggestion, although we appreciate his support.''
d'amato said he wasn't suggesting that kemp quit, only that if he did, he could win in new york, which he has served from the house since 1970
republican presidential hopeful pat robertson, who last month threatened a lawsuit over the state gop's ballot petition forgery scandal, now says he won't take the issue to court
it came down to pat deciding he just didn't want to get involved,'' richie martin, robertson's texas campaign manager, told the houston chronicle
the deadline for initiating a challenge passed this week, and martin said, ``it would have taken much more of an effort than pat was willing to make. we're going to let it slide and let bygones be bygones.''
robertson, during a campaign swing through texas in late january, said his staff was researching a legal challenge to the state republican party's decision to leave the names of all six presidential candidates on the ballot despite allegations that four had submitted petitions with some forged signatures
the party ok'd petitions submitted by robertson and vice president george bush. the fbi and other authorities have been investigating the other petitions
three supporters of political extremist lyndon larouche _ including an illinois congressional candidate _ face charges after being arrested outside new hampshire primary polling places, police said
arrested were george laurence, 48, of romeoville, ill., a democratic candidate for congress; janice hart, 32, of chicago, who embarrassed the illinois democratic party by winning the nomination for secretary of state two years ago; and judy hodgkiss, 36, of manchester
ms. hart and laurence were charged with disorderly conduct, criminal trespass, obstructing government operations and disobeying a police officer, police said. ms. hodgkiss was charged with disorderly conduct
police said one of the larouche supporters was using a public address system outside a polling place and refused requests of election officials to stop
laurence is running for the democratic nomination for congress from illinois' 4th district against former state sen. george sangmeister, who was defeated by a larouche supporter in his march 1986 bid for lieutenant governor
larouche, a rochester, n.h., native and perennial presidential candidate, received 186 votes out of more than 119,000 cast in tuesday's leadoff democratic presidential primary, according to final but unofficial results
the financial challenge of waging a simultaneous campaign in 20 states has presidential campaigns fresh from new hampshire scheming about where to get money for the expensive super tuesday contest
most campaigns are close-mouthed about how much they want to spend on the march 8 series of super tuesday primaries, which include all the southern states but one
but the only one who is already on the air with commercials in the south, _ sen. al gore, jr. of tennessee _ said he will spend up to a minimum of $3 million on television ads alone
you could spend an infinite amount'' running ads in all 20 states, said bill carrick, campaign manager for democratic contender rep. richard gephardt of missouri
gephardt has just enough money to meet his $200,000 in outstanding bills, said carrick. but he has no bank debts at this point, and hopes to raise $2 million through fund-raising events in the next three weeks
one democratic contender, sen. paul simon of illinois, said wednesday that he'll be out of the race unless he can find more money
one the other hand, another democrat, massachusetts gov. michael dukakis, has $4 million avspent $9.5 million against it by the end of 1987
well-funded campaigns must budget carefully so they can spend enough on the later states without going over the $27 million limit. gallons, 500 people evacuated, add quotes from sun and ohio epa officials, spill expected to arrive saturday, other details. adds byline.</note>
city officials stockpiled water in reserve tanks today after about 100,000 gallons of a toxic chemical leaked from a ruptured sun co. pipeline, threatening water supplies for 22,000 people and forcing 500 to be evacuated
the ohio environmental protection agency warned officials of this northwest ohio city to plan to stop drawing water soon from the sandusky river because some of the toluene had flowed into the river near tiffin, nearly 20 miles upstream
about 300 people in the town of old fort were ordered to evacuate their homes today as the spill moved downstream, said seneca county sheriff weldon neff. about 200 residents in an 18-square-mile area along the sandusky river were evacuated wednesday night
three people were treated for exposure to toluene. a firefighter inhaled the fumes, and two other people fell into ice-covered contaminated water
fremont's reserve tanks have been filled. they hold about 4 million gallons, about one day's normal supply, said gary rathfelder, assistant superintendent of the water plant. he said the city will close the water intake valves just before the spill reaches the city
the spill was about 12 miles upstream from fremont and would reach the city in about two days, he said this morning
don higgins, environmental coordinator for the ohio environmental protection agency, said officials are not sure how much toluene had leaked into sugar creek, a tributary of the sandusky river. earthen dams were built on the creek to block further movement of the chemical into the river
it's not the kind of stuff you want in a river,'' he said. ``it won't kill you, but you don't want to be around it for too long.''
toluene is a flammable chemical that can produce irritating or poisonous gases, according to an emergency response guidebook published by the u.s. department of transportation. the chemical is used as an octance enhancer
forrest brokaw, spokesman for the tulsa, okla.-based sun pipe line, said he learned late wednesday that some of the chemical spilled into the river and could affect fremont's water supplies. sun pipe line is a division of the sun co
we'll naturally begin something to make sure they get emergency water supplies,'' he said
brokaw said the spill was caused by a split in the line that might be connected to a 20-gallon leak earlier wednesday. the pipeline runs from a sun refinery in toledo in northwest ohio to a refinery in marcus hook, pa., south of philadelphia
workers have not pinpointed the leak, however, said bob arnet, an environmental safety coordinator for sun pipe line. ``it's been shut off, but it's still leaking,'' he said
president reagan asked congress today for major spending increases to fight the spread of aids and to boost support for schools and colleges
most social programs showed at least modest gains in reagan's election-year budget for fiscal 1989, as the president abandoned perennial proposals for cuts that congress has largely ignored in previous years
the most striking increase was the $1.3 billion request for research and education on the deadly aids virus, up by $349 million, or 38 percent, from the current level. reagan said, ``addressing the acquired immune deficiency syndrome epidemic is the highest public health priority of the administration.''
the government also estimated that its cost of paying welfare and medicaid benefits for aids victims will soar in the year ahead to $736 million from $461 million. that makes the total federal costs more than $2 billion
one year after he sought to cut nearly $5 billion from the department of education's budget, reagan asked congress to raise its spending by $1.5 billion, or nearly 8 percent, to $20.3 billion
the biggest education gain would be in the pell grant program for needy college students, which would climb by $590 million to almost $5 billion. reagan would raise the maximum grant to $2,300, a $100 increase, and award 247,000 more grants. the program now helps 3.15 million college and trade school students
disadvantaged children in elementary schools would be helped by two budget increases: a $238 million increase to $4.6 billion for the chapter 1 remedial education program, and a $43 million boost to $115 million in aid for magnet schools. reagan wants to make the magnet school aid available more freely, and not just for school desegregation
carrying through on an initiative announced in the state of the union address, reagan said he will propose legislation to allow low- and middle-income families to earn interest tax-free on savings bonds for college
the department of health and human services' budget would grow by 5.8 percent, from $375.1 billion to $396.8 billion, including social security and medicare
social security's old age and disability programs alone are expected to grow by $14 billion, or 6.4 percent, to $233.8 billion. ``the administration proposes no changes in social security benefits,'' reagan said. thirty-eight million people receive benefits, and the average retired worker and spouses will draw $10,500 in 1988, an increase of nearly $3,700 over the 1981 level
medicaid grants, which help states provide health insurance for 25 million poor people, will cost the federal government $32.7 billion in 1989, up 7 percent from $30.7 billion currently. under the recent budget agreement with congress, reagan proposed no medicaid cuts for 1989
medicare spending, for 33 million elderly or disabled workers, is projected to rise to $84 billion from $78.9 billion, and reagan proposed $1.2 billion in cuts to meet the deficit-reduction targets that congress and the administration agreed to in december
the budget proposes to limit medicare payments for durable medical equipment, reduce payments for radiology and anesthesiology services, ``close a loophole in payments for home dialysis treatment for end-stage renal disease,'' intensify screening of physician claims by program contractors, and make permanent a requirement that medicare part b monthly premiums _ now $24.80 _ cover 25 percent of the program costs
the budget proposes phasing out the low-income energy block grant over four years, starting with a $300 million cut to $1.2 billion for 1989
it would also reduce the community services block grant by $57 million to $349 million, and eliminate funds for the $93 million work incentive program for welfare families
canadian authorities are investigating a report that an american was offered the job of assassinating prime minister brian mulroney, a spokeswoman said
we are aware from press reports of the allegations that john wayne hearn was approached in 1984 to assassinate the prime minister,'' constable danielle poirier of the royal canadian mounted police said wednesday
we are actively pursuing an investigation of this allegation with u.s. authorities. we have no further comment at this time.''
hearn is serving three life terms in florida for murder. his classified ad in soldier of fortune magazine led to a $22.5 million suit against the publication by the family of a texas woman. they claim the 1984 ad led to the woman's murder
hearn said in a deposition read in federal court wednesday that responses to his advertisement for ``high-risk assignments'' included one seeking the assassination of the president of canada
the deposition, given oct. 13 and read in a houston court, did not go into detail about the canadian assassination request and did not mention mulroney by name
hearn also has claimed that canadians financed the aborted overthrow of the president of french guiana to the tune of $100,000
hearn said in a deposition that the guianese president was terrorizing the population with murderous hit squads. but french guiana is a protectorate of france and has no president
hearn alleged that he and 11 others trained in tennessee for about six weeks before setting out for the south american country. they aborted the ``mission'' when they developed engine trouble while flying over the gulf of mexico, he said
the suit against soldier of fortune magazine stems from the death of sandra black, of bryan, texas, whom hearn admitted shooting in 1985. her husband, robert, is on death row for paying hearn $10,000 to carry out the killing
marjorie einmann, mrs. black's mother, and gary black, the victim's 18-year-old son, contend in their suit that hearn's ad brought him to the attention of robert black
some of the nation's biggest corporations have endorsed a so-called workplace bill of rights, pledging to actively educate workers about aids and protect the rights of employees who have the deadly disease
the pledge unveiled wednesday by the citizens commission on aids for new york city and northern new jersey says people with aids or exposed to the suspected aids virus ``are entitled to the same rights and opportunities as people with other serious or life-threatening illnesses.''
the pledge endorsed by 30 employers adds that they ``do not pose a risk of transmission of the virus to coworkers through ordinary workplace contact.''
requiring workers or job applicants take blood tests for the virus is specifically rejected, as is divulging medical information about an employee, it says
but, it said, ``employers should provide employees with sensitive, accurate and up-to-date education about risk reduction in their personal lives.''
ibm was the first company to endorse the principles, john zucotti, cochairman of the commission, said at a news conference
others are at&amp;t, time inc., johnson &amp; johnson, warner-lambert, itt, dow jones, chemical bank, the city of new york, the teachers' unions of new york city and newark, n.j., united jersey banks, shubert organization, times mirror co., atlantic industries; ms., atlantic, sassy and u.s. news and world report magazines;
rubenstein associates, rockefeller brothers fund, the national urban league, the girl scouts, salvation army, red cross of greater new york, new jersey a. philip randolph institute, lambda legal defense and education fund, fund for the city of new york, wildcat services and archie comics
those companies that have subscribed to these principles have been very courageous,'' said thomas stoddard, executive director of the lambda fund. ``they have been willing to take the heat because they understand the gravity of the problem. we will continue to have the problem of stigmatization until all companies subscribe to these principles.''
the 15-member commission was established in july and funded by 17 local foundations. zucotti said its mission is to marshal information and mobilize effort to improve care for aids sufferers, promote prevention and education about the fatal affliction and address its social impact
acquired immune deficiency syndrome is caused by a virus that damages the body's immune system, leaving victims susceptible to infections and cancer. there is no known cure
it is spread most often through sexual contact, needles or syringes shared by drug abusers, infected blood or blood products, and from pregnant women to their offspring
the federal centers for disease control estimates that aids will strike 270,000 americans and kill 179,000 by the end of 1991. the cdc already has received reports of more than 28,000 deaths of people with aids
this budget also reflects my belief that the health of all of our citizens must remain one of our top priorities:
_i continue to urge enactment of an affordable self-financing insurance program through medicare to protect families from economic devastation caused by catastrophic illness
_to attack the scourge of aids, i propose $2 billion for additional research, education, and treatment in 1989 _ a 38 percent increase over the 1988 level and more than double the federal government's effort in 1987. this includes $1.3 billion in funding for the public health service
_building upon the nation's pre-eminence in basic biomedical research, i seek a 5.1 percent increase for non-aids research at the national institutes of health
our fight against drug abuse must continue, as well as our efforts to protect the individual against crime
_for expanded law enforcement, including efforts targeted at white collar crime, organized crime, terrorism and public corruption, i propose $4.5 billion _ an increase of 6 percent over 1988
_for drug law enforcement, prevention, and treatment programs, i propose $3.9 billion in 1989, a 13 percent increase over the 1988 level
_to relieve prison overcrowding and adequately house a growing inmate population, i would provide $437 million _ more than double the $202 million devoted to federal prison construction in 1988
other areas of federal responsibility receive priority funding in this budget:
_for the federal aviation administration to continue its multiyear program to modernize the nation's air traffic control systems, i would provide $1.6 billion _ a 44 percent increase over the level of 1988
_to improve coordination of federal rural development programs and to redirect funding toward needy rural areas and program recipients, i propose a rural development initiative to be coordinated by the secretary of agriculture
_to carry out the joint recommendations of the u.s. and canadian special envoys on acid rain, i recommend total funding of $2.5 billion for innovative clean coal technology demonstration projects over the period 1988 through 1992
_i also recommend an expansion of hazardous waste cleanup efforts, with an increase in superfund outlays of some $430 million in 1989
_to continue filling the strategic petroleum reserve (spr) at the current rate of 50,000 barrels per day, i would provide $334 million in 1989. contingent upon the enactment of legislation authorizing the sale of the naval petroleum reserves (npr), i would provide an additional $477 million to bring the fill rate up to 100,000 barrels per day, and an additional $208 million to establish a separate 10 million barrel defense petroleum inventory to offset the disposition of the npr
_to improve the speed and accuracy of tax processing and expand information services provided to taxpayers, i would provide a $241 million increase for the internal revenue service. these funds are designed to assure smooth implementation of the 1986 tax reforms
a soviet delegation hopes to get a sense of the way people live in utah and perhaps see the mormon tabernacle choir as it studies the area for colleagues who could be stationed here if the intermediate nuclear forces treaty is ratified
igor khripounov, first secretary at the soviet embassy, alecsandr zobkov, an assistant military attache, and vladimir sadovnikov, director of the soviet city of votkinsk's industrial organization, arrived wednesday and planned to leave friday, said carey cavanaugh, a representative from the state department's office of soviet union affairs
the delegation is here ``just to get a general feel of the salt lake area,'' cavanaugh said
the delegates toured the mormon church's temple square in downtown salt lake city on wednesday and planned to visit mountain canyons today
a three-member american delegation is in votkinsk, about 600 miles east of moscow in the ural mountains, for a simultaneous visit
both areas were identified on the intermediate nuclear forces treaty as areas where monitoring for the inspection of inf sites could take place,'' cavanaugh said
both cities had previously been closed to diplomats from either country
this is a very important treaty,'' khripounov said when he arrived at salt lake international airport. ``we hope to look around and see how people live. we'd like to see the cultural side _ perhaps the world famous (mormon tabernacle) choir.''
the delegation also planned to visit magna, a suburb of 8,500 west of salt lake city and site of the hercules inc. bacchus west plant. the facility developed motors for the pershing ii missiles, banned under the treaty, from 1979 to 1987
up to 30 soviet inspectors may establish a compound near the plant if the senate ratifies the inf treaty, signed dec. 7 by president reagan and soviet leader mikhail gorbachev
maintaining peace in a troubled world is the most important responsibility of government. fortunately, during the past seven years, our defense capabilities have been restored toward levels more consistent with meeting our responsibility to provide an environment safe and secure from aggression. specifically, combat readiness has been improved, and our forces have been modernized
the proposals for national security contained in this budget represent an essential minimum program for keeping america safe and honoring our commitments to our friends and allies. anything less would jeopardize not only our security _ and that of our friends and allies _ but also would dim the prospects for further negotiated agreements with our adversaries
as called for in the bipartisan budget agreement, my budget requests defense funding of $299.5 billion in budget authority and $294 billion in outlays for 1989. it also provides for about 2 percent real growth in these programs in future years. also, as called for in the agreement, my budget requests $18.1 billion in budget authority for discretionary spending for international affairs. this includes $8.3 billion in security assistance to allied and friendly countries where the united states has special security concerns
incentives: it is essential to continue to change the incentive structure for many domestic federal programs to promote greater efficiency and cost-effectiveness. this budget proposes to create such needed incentives
many federal programs offer payments without sufficient regard for how well taxpayers' money is being spent. for example, farm price support programs, under the food security act of 1985, are much too costly. i plan to continue pushing for the elimination of artificially high price supports, thereby reducing the need for export subsidies. in particular, i plan to propose amendments to the act to modify the counterproductive sugar price support program that currently poses significant problems in the areas of trade policy, foreign policy and agricultural policy. the importance of agricultural trade to the economic health of the farm sector and the nation as a whole mandates increased reliance on free markets, not government largess
the budget proposes certain reforms in the medicare program in order to achieve the savings agreed to in the bipartisan budget agreement. first, as justified by the results of several independent studies, i propose to reduce the add-on payment for teaching hospitals under the prospective payment system (pps) for indirect medical education from 7.70 percent to 4.05 percent, the best estimate of the added costs incurred historically by teaching hospitals. second, i propose to limit medicare overhead payments for graduate medical education and make consistent varying secondary payor enforcement mechanisms. to reduce escalating supplementary medical insurance costs and help slow future increases in beneficiary premiums, i propose to limit payments for certain overpriced physician procedures, limit payments for durable medical equipment and supplies, and eliminate a loophole in the payment process for kidney dialysis. in total, these reforms would reduce spending for medicare by $1.2 billion from the level that would occur if current law were continued. spending for the medicare program would still increase by 7 percent from 1988 to 1989. ``addressing his...; delete grafs 27-29 pvs to tighten bgng ``a controversial...</note>
former arizona gov. bruce babbitt, declaring ``i am free,'' today abandoned his faltering campaign for the democratic presidential nomination but vowed to carry on his fight for ``the politics of truth.''
the first democratic casualty of 1988, babbitt said he was not ready to endorse any of the six democrats still in the race
after finishing fifth in iowa and sixth in new hampshire, babbitt's campaign for the democratic nomination clearly had no place to go
at a news conference, the former governor, whose wit had drawn sympathetic coverage from the media said, drew laughter when he said people had told him, ``you fought a good fight, you were in it right up to the beginning.''
i don't know why we fared no better,'' he went on. ``i'll leave that for others to ponder.''
looking back on his campaign, babbitt said, ``i can't say i loved every minute of it, but i loved most of it.''
he recalled the occasions during his campaign when he asked people to stand up if they supported his call for candor, especially his advocacy of a national sales tax to help reduce the federal budget deficit
i'll never forget the people in audience after audience who stood up out of their chair to join me in a demonstration of belief for the politics of truth,'' he said
i stood up for what i believed in,'' he added. ``they stood up for me. that's what this last year has been about. because a campaign is more than a candidate. a cause is more than a campaign. this candidate is withdrawing. this campaign is closing down. but the cause that it stood for has just begun.''
in answering reporters' questions, babbitt displayed the wit and self-deprecating humor that characterized his campaign. asked if he would consider the vice-presidential spot, he replied, ``you probably ought to select a vice-presidential candidate from a state with more than seven electoral votes.''
he added that if reincarnated he would try to be from the neighboring delegate-rich state of texas
asked how the generally favorable press coverage he received affected the race, babbitt joked, ``you engaged in a deliberate conspiracy to destroy my candidacy by making me into kind of a house pet ... to destroy my credibility with the american people.''
addressing his party, which has lost four of the last five presidential elections, babbitt said, ``it is up to us to give our country a compelling reason to elect us to power.''
i'm going to wait and watch and do everything i can to insure the success of our party,'' he said
the 48-year-old former arizona governor spent tuesday and wednesday consulting friends, supporters and family members about his decision, which he planned to announce at a news conference today
he said his two children urged him to ``stay in it as long as you've got half a chance,'' while his wife hattie contended conversely that ``timing and grace are a big part of life and politics.''
there's a point at which you just don't emulate harold stassen forever,'' he added in reference to the perennial republican presidential candidate from minnesota
babbitt finished sixth out of a seven-man field on tuesday in the new hampshire primary, garnering 5 percent of the vote. only former sen. gary hart of colorado received less
babbitt's campaign is broke and contributions ``slowed to a trickle'' after his fifth-place finish in last week's iowa caucuses where he had staked virtually all of his resources, said campaign spokesman vada manager
he said he would not endorse any of the other democrats right away, although jesse jackson has already sought his support
and hart urged him to stay in the contest when the two spoke tuesday night, babbitt said
he said, `you've got something to say. you're a courageous guy. there's nothing shameful about losing.'''
furthermore, babbitt said hart noted that the large number of candidate debates this year allows them to have a platform without spending a lot of money
babbitt is about $150,000 to $200,000 in debt, aides said. manager said donations ``slowed to a trickle'' after babbitt's poor showing in iowa
but money was not the main problem, said babbitt, noting in his usual wry style, ``a lot of my friends are saying the money's never been a problem. you never had any money, so why should you get excited about not having any money now?''
babbitt approached his campaign with a non-traditional style from the beginning, turning to unusual outdoor attention-getters such as a bicycle ride across iowa, an ascent of mt. washington in new hampshire, and a rugged cross-country ski tour in northern arizona
he attracted favorable press reviews for his candor, his wit, and the depth of his economic proposals. babbitt often poked fun at himself and his low standing in the polls with such quips as, ``nobody ever told me i was going to be a front-runner and so far i have fulfilled that expectation.''
he said his new hampshire loss was not surprising after the iowa defeat, but that he had hoped to get at least 10 percent of the vote
asked to explain what went wrong in his campaign, which he launched last march 10, babbitt said:
i would sum it up by saying this: when you have a new messenger and a different and challenging message at the same time, it's a hard sell.''
babbitt left open the possibility he might take another shot at the presidency in 1992
it was a great try and i don't regret a minute of it,'' he said. ``who knows, maybe i'll ride back into town again.''
,0354
nathalie menigon, a suspected member of the direct action terrorist group, has been sentenced to 12 years in prison for the attempted murder of two policemen in 1980
after deliberating for 35 minutes late wednesday night, a special criminal court panel of seven judges sentenced ms. menigon for firing at the two policemen on sept. 13, 1980, when they closed in on her and her companion, jean-marc rouillan. the policemen were not killed
prosecutor daniel barreyre had asked for a 15-year sentence
ms. menigon, 31, was the first of seven suspected direct action members scheduled to be tried in the next two weeks for crimes ranging from robbery to attempted murder
she, rouillan and defendants georges cipriani and joelle aubron have been on a hunger strike for 75 days to protest their isolation in prison and to demand the right to receive more visitors. all have been in the hospital section of fresnes prison
the four are believed by authorities to be among the original members of direct action, which claimed responsiblity for the november 1986 assasination of french general rene audran in paris and the january 1985 slaying of georges besse, president of the renault company, in yvelines, outside paris
those killings are still under investigation, and the current trial deals with other crimes committed between 1980 and 1983
ms. menigon, pale and thin, entered the courtroom for the opening of her trial wednesday in a wheelchair and accompanied by two nurses. she refused to answer questions, saying she was too weak
she denounced the trial as ``the negation and theft of who i am, of my identity as a militant communist revolutionary.''
the seven defendants were convicted last week of the common charge of criminal association and received varying sentences up to 10 years in prison
all the suspected top members of direct action were arrested feb. 21, 1987, at a loire valley farm. authorities said the arrests effectively put an end to the terrorist group
a boston police detective died today after being shot during a drug raid, san francisco police killed a retarded boy who was carrying a toy gun, and a dallas officer killed a man who pointed a gun at his partner
at st. charles, ill., a man who ``just kept shooting and reloading'' in a residential neighborhood was in serious condition today with gunshot wounds and two policemen also were hospitalized
in san francisco, 13-year-old artogi groshe was hit by a single bullet in the head wednesday night
officers michael huddleson and janet campbell saw the boy walking down a street with what they believed was a .22-caliber pistol, said sgt. jerome senkir
the two crouched behind the doors of their patrol car ``with their guns drawn and pointed'' when they were about 40 feet away, he said
the suspect turned around with a gun in his hand, crouched down and let out a loud scream,'' senkir said. ``both officers opened fired.''
neighbor frank fua said groshe ``played with the gun all the time.''
he waved it around and would point it at anything: buses, trees, the water tower,'' said fua, 19
boston police detective sherman griffiths was pronounced dead today at boston city hospital, said police spokesman jim jordan
griffiths, 36, and five other plainclothes officers went to an apartment wednesday night with a search warrant to look for illegal drugs, said police spokesman tom santry
when they met resistance, they began to force their way into the apartment, and two shots were fired from inside, santry said. police did not return fire, he said. five men in the apartment were taken into custody for questioning, and one of them was charged in the shooting, santry said
two boston officers were wounded jan. 29 during a drug operation. an alleged cocaine dealer who turned a shotgun on an officer was killed
police in st. charles, ill., said frank gutierez, 38, carried a shotgun and another weapon and fired shots wildly wednesday night in a neighborhood of homes and small businesses
he was just shooting at anything,'' said witness nicholas sanchez jr. ``he just kept shooting and reloading.''
the first officer on the scene, ron brandenburg, was shot in the foot and another officer, jeff finley, was shot in the neck, said a dispatcher who wouldn't give her name
two other officers shot gutierez and subdued him, the dispatcher said
gutierez and finley were in serious condition today, hospital and police officals said. brandenburg was in good condition
two dallas officers followed a suspicious car wednesday night and watched while one of three occupants got out and walked toward a darkened house
the man then approached the officers' squad car, said lt. ron waldrop. the officers told investigators they got out of their car and ordered the man to put his hands on the car
the man reached for his waistband, produced a gun and pointed it at one of the officers, they told investigators
the other officer fired twice and the unidentified man was pronounced dead at baylor university medical center, waldrop said. a loaded pistol, its safety disengaged, was found nearby, police said
it was the third fatal shooting by dallas police this year
a french warship today found and destroyed a drifting mine in the northern persian gulf, french naval officials said. mine-sweeping forces continued their withdrawal from the waterway
in london, lloyd's shipping intelligence unit withdrew its report that a japanese cargo vessel had struck a mine off the united arab emirates, saying it now appeared that the ship may have collided with a recently sunken freighter
the u.s. helicopter carrier okinawa headed down the gulf to return to the united states with the four helicopter mine sweepers sent to the region last august
the rh-53d sea stallions, originally eight in number, spent six months searching for mines ahead of convoys of u.s.-flagged kuwaiti tankers. although they found none, the aircraft accomplished their mission of protecting the convoys, u.s. officers say
the kuwait news agency quoted french naval officials in paris as saying the corvette montcalm today had used gunfire to destroy an ``old mine'' earlier found floating in the northern gulf
it gave no other details, but it appeared the mine may have been one previously spotted by saudi arabia's navy several days ago. the mine sank and was lost, the saudis reported
the french said it brought to 11 the number of mines, all believed laid by iran, that its navy had found and destroyed in recent months
lloyd's said the 4,842-ton auto carrier prosper world, which suffered mysterious damage to its bottom while sailing off dubai on wednesday, may have struck the submerged superstructure of the greek-owned motor vessel mare
the 15,241-ton, panamanian-flag freighter sank in 50 feet of water off the port of jebel ali on feb. 4 while being towed to a shipyard. it had been gutted by fire in an iranian gunboat attack, then abandoned by its crew, five days earlier
shipping executives said divers found the hull of the prosper world had been damaged, possibly by running aground. they ruled out a mine as the cause
the okinawa, the first major ship to be withdrawn from the navy's gulf-based middle east force since last summer's emergency buildup of forces to counter the threat of iranian attacks, was heading for home port at san diego
its departure will eventually scale down the force from 17 to 16 ships, including six ocean minesweepers that arrived in november to replace the helicopters
the battleship iowa and two other ships were withdrawn earlier from the u.s. task force operating in the arabian sea outside the gulf, in support of the navy's escort operations
the five european navies that also sent a total of 14 mine sweepers to the gulf are now in the process of cutting back those forces by about half
although the provision of needed legal services for those who cannot afford them is an important goal in our society, the current system earmarks a large portion of the funding to ``national and state support centers'' that have been critized for political involvement. i urge congress to disallow use of federal funds for such ``think tanks'' and limit the use of funds to the direct assistance of the poor in need of legal aid
the government often continues programs at the federal level that are no longer needed. this is the case with rural housing programs, the economic development administration, urban mass transit discretionary grants, urban development action grants, sewage treatment, small business administration direct loans, housing development action grants, the housing rehabilitation loan program, and economic development programs of the tennessee valley authority. efforts to reverse this situation have been undertaken by prior administrations as well as my own, but the limited results to date indicate the difficulty of curbing excessive government involvement in these areas
regulatory relief: for seven years i have worked to reduce the excess burdens of government regulation for all americans _ working men and women, consumers, businesses and state and local governments. as a result, various departments and agencies have reduced the scope and costs of federal regulation. federal approval of experimental drugs has been expedited, making them available to treat serious or life-threatening diseases when other treatments do not work. excessive burdens on state and local governments are being lifted. access to goods and services has been made easier, and at less cost. federal reporting requirements on individuals and businesses have been eased, as well as the paperwork burden on those who wish to compete for contracts with the federal government. under the leadership of the presidential task force on regulatory relief, headed by the vice president, the administration will continue these and other efforts to lessen the burden of excessive government regulation
as a case in point, my budget proposes termination of the interstate commerce commission, contingent upon enactment of legislation that completes deregulation of the motor carrier industry. there is no justification for continued economic (as opposed to safety) regulation of surface transportation, and there is a substantial argument against it. as a result of economic deregulation of trucking and railroads, consumers save tens of billions of dollars each year, and the industry is healthier, more innovative and better able to adapt to changing economic circumstances. this is no time to turn back the clock
privatization: the government and the private sector should do what each does best. the federal government should not be involved in providing goods and services where private enterprise can do the jobs cheaper and@or better. in some cases, the fact that no private provider exists is a reflection of government policy to prohibit competition _ as with first class mail service. in other cases, an absence of private providers reflects a government policy of providing large subsidies _ as with uranium enrichment. invariably, the taxpayer ends up paying more for less
accordingly, my budget proposes that a number of federal enterprises be transferred back to the private sector, through public offerings or outright sales. following our successful sale of conrail and auctioning of $5 billion in selected loan portfolios, i am proposing the sale not only of the naval petroleum reserves, but also of the alaska power administration, the federal government's helium program, excess real property and a further $12 billion in loan portfolios. in addition, i have proposed legislation to authorize a study of possible divestiture of the southeastern power administration, and plan to study possible privatization of our uranium enrichment facilities, as well as ways of making the u.s. postal service more efficient through greater reliance on the private sector. such ``privatization'' efforts continue to be a high priority of this administration, and i look forward to acting on the final recommendations of the privatization commission, which i established last september
privatization does not necessarily imply abrogation of government responsibility for these services. rather, it recognizes that what matters is the service provided, not who provides it. government has an inherent tendency to become too big, unwieldy, and inefficient; and to enter into unfair competition with the private sector
the federal government should also depend more on the private sector to provide ancillary and support services for activities that remain in federal hands. therefore, i am proposing the development of a private mediating institution to reduce the backlog of cases before the u.s. tax court. i propose that the private sector be relied upon for booking functions for concessional food programs. i also encourage the complete privatization of wastewater treatment plants, certain mass transit projects, the department of agriculture's national finance center and the rural telephone bank
in addition, our administration plans to initiate privatization and commercialization efforts involving federal prison industries, relying on a private space facility for micro-gravity research opportunities in the early 1990's, commercial cargo inspection, military commissaries, coast guard buoy maintenance and the management of undeveloped federal land. moreover, my budget proposes that the work associated with certain federal employment positions be reviewed for the feasibility of contracting their responsibilities out to the private sector as yet another way to increase productivity, reduce costs and improve services
one of the best ways to test the worth of a governmental program or a particular project is to shift some of the cost of that program or project to the direct beneficiaries. we have done that, for example, with water resources development projects. as a result, local sponsors and users choose to proceed only on the projects that are most important and most cost effective
a man riding home after a batting-practice session in the park was fatally shot by a motorist angry because he thought the man's car was not going fast enough, authorities said
the shooting recalled last summer's rash of shootings on roads when hot-heads turned to weapons to air their grievances with other motorists. five people were killed and more than a dozen injured. one man was left paralyzed
kurt runge, 23, of sun valley, died today, 2{ hours after the 10:10 p.m. shooting in north hollywood, said police sgt. steve millarr
runge had been practicing at a baseball batting cage at castle park in van nuys, said detective mike coffey. he was heading home with a friend when a motorist behind their car became angry
the suspect drove next to the victim and shot at them for driving too slowly,'' millarr said
the driver, a childhood friend of runge, said he heard about three shots. runge was shot in the chest
police believe the shots were fired from a white, early 1980s model chevrolet caprice carrying two men
detectives have information that a light-colored van and additional vehicles were traveling near the victim's vehicle and possibly witnessed the event,'' millarr said
last week, an armed motorist apparently became angered when a car stalled in front of him at a tustin intersection and shot at the stopped auto, critically injuring a passenger, police said
three men recently went on trial in three of the summer shootings. two testified they meant to scare other drivers
on wednesday, margarito leyva, 27, of newhall was acquitted of attempted murder and other felonies in an august shooting involving a california highway patrol officer. but he was convicted of possessing a firearm in a vehicle and possessing a concealed weapon
he faces a maximum six-month jail term when sentenced march 2, said public defender james m. coady
management improvements: as we all know, the federal government has a major effect upon our daily lives through the direct delivery of services, the payment of financial assistance through various entitlement programs, the collection of taxes and fees and the regulation of commercial enterprises. as the 21st century approaches, the federal government must adapt its role in our society to meet changing demands arising from changing needs and requirements. at the turn of the century, the u.s. population will exceed 268 million, with a greater proportion of elderly requiring more specialized services. the nation will operate at a much faster pace as changes in technology and communication link the world's economies, trade, capital flows and travel as never before
i have asked the office of domestic affairs and the office of management and budget to work with the president's council on management improvement to conduct an in-depth review and recommend to me by this august what further adjustments in the federal role should be made to prepare for the challenge of government in the 21st century. this summer i will receive their report, ``government of the future.'' i also intend to complete the ``reform '88'' management improvement program i started six years ago to ovwerhaul the administrative, financial and credit systems in our federal government; to implement productivity and quality plans in each agency; and to examine the needs of the federal work force of the future. i want to leave a legacy of good management of today's programs, with plans in place to handle tomorrow's challenges
efforts to improve the management of the federal government must be continued. we have all heard stories of the horrible waste that occurs in the federal government. some of it is obvious _ like the billions of dollars in unneeded projects that were included in the thousand-page 1988 spending bill that was dropped on my desk last december. some are not obvious _ like the billion dollars in unnecessary interest expense the government paid, year after year, because it lacked a cash management system, or the billions of dollars lost annually for lack of a credit management process to ensure collection of the trillion dollars in loans owed the federal government
in july 1980, i promised the american people: ``i will not accept the excuse that the federal government has grown ... beyond the control of any president, administration or congress ... we are going to put an end to the notion that the american taxpayer exists to fund the federal government. the federal government exists to serve the american people ... i pledge my administration will do that.'' i have delivered on that promise
the first step was taken within months after my inauguration when i formed the president's council on integrity and efficiency, composed of the agency inspectors general. by the time i leave office, they will have delivered savings of over $110 billion in reduced waste, fraud and abuse to the american people
then, in march 1982, i initiated the world's largest management improvement program with these words: ``with reform '88 we're going to streamline and reorganize the processes that control the money, information, personnel and property of the federal bureaucracy.'' i told my cabinet at that time that ``we have six years to change what it took twenty or thirty to create _ and we came to washington to make changes!'' i have followed up on that commitment. the president's council on management improvement has overseen this effort, and is generating significant results. thruout. no pickup.</note>
a woman whose husband won more than $700,000 in the california lottery last month was found dead in her home with her throat slit, authorities said today
a 10-month-old boy found in the house unharmed was believed to be the woman's son, said san diego county sheriff's sgt. bob ramirez. several other children in the family were not home
the body of ann marie jenkins, whose throat had been cut, was discovered wednesday afternoon, ramirez said
mrs. jenkins' husband, gary, told authorities he returned home from work and found his wife's fully clothed body in a hall, ramirez said
jenkins won $727,165 in the lottery on jan. 13, taking home $581,732 after taxes, said lottery spokesman john schade
there were no signs of a robbery or break-in, said ramirez, and the sheriff's office was investigating a motive. jenkins was not being held, the sergeant said
a bill to allow youngsters to have lemonade stands and sell snacks without a license was prompted after the ``big, bad health department'' shut down several children's stands at a jamboree
the bill cleared the house today on a 94-0 vote and now goes to the senate. it would allow children age 16 or younger to sell baked goods, soft drinks and other refreshments at public events without a license or permit as long as they didn't run the stands more than three times a year
the bill was amended to include a provision to allow inspections of the stands
the sponsor, frank buck, said some children, including his own, had lemonade stands and sold cookies at smithville's annual fiddlers jamboree, but were shut down
the big, bad health depeartment came by and put them out of business,'' he said
u.s. industry operated at 82.2 percent of capacity in january, matching the december level as the highest operating rate in almost eight years, the government said today
the federal reserve said that further growth in the operating rate was held back last month by cutbacks in steel and automobile production
the last time that american industry operated at higher than 82.2 percent of capacity was in march 1980, when production was at 83.7 percent of capacity
during the 1981-82 recession, the operating rate fell below 70 percent. the operating rate climbed to 81.8 percent in august of 1984 as the country pulled out of the recession. however, manufacturers in many industries laid off workers and closed plants in 1985 and 1986 as foreign competition cut into sales
the reagan administration began a campaign in 1985 to force the value of the dollar lower in an effort to make american products competitive once again on overseas markets
that effort began reaping benefits last year with the operating rate rising by 2.4 percentgage points in 1987. by contrast, operating rates had fallen by 0.9 percentage point in 1986
the administration, which today released its latest economic forecast as part of its 1989 budget, is counting on a resurgent manufacturing sector to keep the country out of a recession during this presidential election year
many private economists, however, believe that growth will slow considerably, especially during the early part of 1988, as businesses cut back on orders in an effort to work down high levels of unsold goods
economists said the january report on factory use showed that process had already begun
the operating rate in the auto industry dropped by 1.2 percentage points in january to 76.7 percent of capacity. it was the third consecutive monthly decline after auto plants hit an operating rate of 82 percent in october
steel and other makers of primary metals saw their operating rates drop to 89.6 percent of capacity last month, down from 91.2 percent in december
for all of manufacturing, the operating rate was unchanged at 82.4 percent of capacity. producers of durable goods, such as steel and autos, saw operating rates decline to an average of 79.9 percent of capacity, 0.1 percentage point below the december level. makers of non-durable goods saw operating rates rise by 0.1 percentage point to 86.1 percent of capacity
the mining industry, which has been hardhit by declines in oil prices, had a 0.3 percentage point drop in the operating rate to 80.2 percent of capacity
this was offset, however, by a 0.9 percentage point increase in the operating rate at utility companies, which rose to 81.6 percent in january. the big gain was attributed to unusually severe winter weather which boosted heating demands
nude drawings of women that county officials ordered removed from a courthouse gallery cannot be barred from the exhibit, a federal judge ruled today
judge edwin m. kosik's order allows the works by artist joseph ray to be hung immediately, and they could be put back up today, said american civil liberties union lawyer stefan presser
this is what makes us different from the soviet union. we're not supposed to have big brother saying, `you can look at landscapes, and you can't look at nudes,''' presser said
ray, an east stroudsburg artist and psychology professor, hung the nudes in a display of 50 charcoal drawings feb. 5. the show at the courthouse lasts until feb. 26
monroe county commissioners and president judge james r. marsh objected to the nudes, and ray agreed to remove them because he did not want to jeopardize the rest of the exhibit. but he sued county officials
ray argued that his rights under the first and 14th amendments were violated when his paintings were barred from public display
kosik, ruling after a half-hour hearing, said the fred m. waring gallery in the courthouse was well-established and could not be censored. county officials established the gallery about 10 years ago
they have indeed elected to enlighten or otherwise to open the public court as a designated forum ... for the display of art,'' kosik said
daniel m. corveleyn, assistant county solicitor, had argued the art should be screened because people often had to pass the gallery for court business and not by choice
he later said the commissioners would not appeal the ruling
ray sought unspecified damages, but that was not addressed in kosik's ruling
these efforts are described in greater detail in my management report, which is being submitted concurrently. they can succeed only if all federal managers and employees work together. therefore, i propose in this budget a new approach to paying federal employees who increase their productivity. i ask the congress to modify the current system of virtually automatic ``within-grade'' pay increases for the roughly 40 percent of employees eligible each year to one that is based on employee performance. this will give federal employees stronger incentives to improve service delivery and reduce costs to the taxpayer
as i have stressed on numerous occasions, the current budget process is clearly unworkable and desperately needs a drastic overhaul. last year, as in the year before, the congress did not complete action on a budget until well past the beginning of the fiscal year. th congress missed every deadline it had set for itself just 9 months earlier. in the end, the congress passed a year-long, 1,057-page omnibus $605 billion appropriations bill with an accompanying conference report of 1,053 pages and a reconciliation bill 1,186 pages long. members of congress had only 3 hours to consider all three items. congress should not pass another massive continuing resolution _ and as i said in the state of the union address, if they do i will not sign it
i am asking for a constitutional amendment that mandates a balanced budget and forces the federal government to live within its means. a constitutional amendment to balance the federal budget _ and a provision requiring a super-majority vote in the congress to increase taxes _ would impose some much-needed discipline on the congressional budget process. ninety-nine percent of americans live in states that require a balanced state budget, and a total of 32 states already have passed resolutions calling for a convention for the purpose of proposing a balanced budget amendment to the u.s. constitution
also, i am asking the congress for a line-item veto, so that my successors could reach into massive appropriation bills such as the last one, cut out the waste, and enforce budget discipline. forty-three state governors have a line-item veto; the president should have this power as well. as governor of the state of california (1967-1975), i used the line-item veto 943 times. the california state legislature upheld each of these vetoes, even though both houses were controlled by the opposition party
in addition, i propose the following further reforms to the budget process:
(1) joint budget resolution. the budget process has so degenerated in recent years that the presidential budget is routinely discarded and the congressional budget resolution is regularly disregarded. as a remedy, i propose that henceforth the congress and the executive collaborate on a joint resolution that sets out spending priorities within the receipts available. the requirement of a presidential signature would force both branches of government to resolve policy differences before appropriations measures must be formulated. the budget process could be further improved by including in the budget law allocations by committee as well as by budget function
(2) individual transmittal of appropriation bills. the current practice of transmitting full-year continuing resolutions skirts appropriations committee-subcommittee jurisdictions. more importantly, it does not permit the legislative and executive branches to exercise proper scrutiny of federal spending. therefore, i propose a requirement that appropriations bills be transmitted individually to the president
former black panther johnny spain, one of the san quentin six involved in a 1971 prison shootout, must remain in prison pending a hearing on his request for parole in an unrelated murder, a judge ruled
spain, 38, had already served five years of a life sentence for murder-robbery at the time of the escape attempt at the san quentin state prison in which three guards and three prisoners were killed
at wednesday's hearing in superior court, spain's attorney, dennis riordan, argued that parole authorities have refused to apply normal standards for release to spain's original murder-robbery sentence to punish him for his role in the 1971 shootout
the attorney argued that authorites have unfairly taken the san quentin shootout into account when considering parole, against the orders of the judge who reversed the conviction and despite a prison record he described as exemplary
riordan was seeking spain's release on bail pending a ruling on his request that the convict be paroled for a 1966 murder-robbery in los angeles
superior judge kathleen parker denied bail, telling riordan she didn't have authority to grant it. but she scheduled a full hearing march 1 on the parole request
spain was convicted of two counts of murder in the prison shootout, but the conviction was overturned
on feb. 11, a three-member panel of the state board of prison terms voted to free spain after he serves an additional 16 months of the original murder-robbery sentence, bringing the total time served on his life term to 23 years
at wednesday's hearing, riordan maintained the average sentence in such cases is 10 years and the longest a californian other than spain has been imprisoned on a similar conviction is 20 years
because parents of a child who was allegedly molested will not participate in a trial, a federal judge dismissed the final molestation charge against a former presidio army base day care worker
u.s. district william schwarzer took the action wednesday after the u.s. attorney's office learned the parents no longer were willing to participate in the april 4 trial
schwarzer dismissed the single charge that remained against gary hambright, 34
u.s. attorney joseph russoniello said investigators will continue examining evidence and his staff will ``see if there's not some way to put together a salvageable case that can be prosecuted.''
that presented a less-optimistic picture than was offered last week by two assistant u.s. attorneys, who vowed to return to a federal grand jury seeking new indictments against hambright on more specific molestation charges after schwarzer dismissed six charges because of vagueness
hambright once faced 11 molestation charges involving 10 children. five counts contained in four charges were dismissed later when the government said there were evidentiary problems. hambright's case has been presented to a grand jury twice
he had been charged in january 1987 with molesting a 2-year-old boy at the day care center but was freed when the boy was found incapable of testifying and the judge refused to allow second-hand reports of his statements
his indictment again last october triggered an investigation that resulted in the examination of almost 100 children from the day care center for signs of physical or psychological abuse
the publisher of soldier of fortune, defending the magazine against a lawsuit by a slain woman's family, says he had no way of knowing a classified advertisement in the journal would lead to the woman's death
the family is seeking $22.5 million from the magazine, accusing it of negligence for publishing the ad that brought robert black together with john wayne hearn and led to the murder-for-hire of black's wife, sandra
i have no idea what's in the minds of people who place those ads,'' publisher robert brown testified wednesday
the bryan woman was shot to death in 1985. her husband is on texas' death row for paying hearn $10,000 to carry out the killing. hearn is serving three life terms in florida for murder
marjorie einmann, mrs. black's mother, and gary black, the victim's 18-year-old son, are seeking $2.5 million in actual damages and $20 million in punitive damages from the colorado-based magazine
hearn's ad appeared in four issues in late 1984, seeking former marine and vietnam veterans and weapons specialists with jungle warfare expertise for ``high risk assignments'' in the united states or overseas
i never expected anyone to be so stupid to advertise in soldier of fortune their intent to do criminal enterprise,'' said brown
under questioning by plaintiff's attorney ron franklin, brown reviewed more than two dozen classified ads run in the magazine up to 1984. many of the ads sought or advertised the services of self-proclaimed mercenaries, weapons specialists, explosives experts and mechanics, a term franklin said was synonymous with hired killers
brown said a ``mechanic'' in a ``high risk assignment'' also could mean someone who could fix a helicopter overseas
hearn said in a deposition read into testimony wednesday that his ad brought responses from people who were looking for help with bombings, assaults, jail breaks and killings
he said black first contacted him about the sale of a gun collection and at their first meeting suggested he needed help to kill his wife
after several discussions, hearn said he killed mrs. black in february 1985 by shooting her twice in the head at her house
in response to a question whether soldier of fortune or its publisher were responsible for his illegal activities, he replied: ``if i had never run an ad in soldier of fortune ... i would have never killed anyone.''
attorneys for the magazine do not dispute the magazine ad brought hearn and black together, but they insist brown had no way of knowing the ad was for illegal activity
magazine attorney larry thompson said the magazine was focused on vietnam veterans and the classified ads were run as a source of employment for them, but also appealed to military historians and people who like adventure
according to hearn, whose deposition was taken last october, the ad he placed was intended to attract bodyguard and security work
(3) strict observance of allocations. during the 1980s, an unacceptable budget practice evolved within the congress of disregarding congressionally approved function allocations. funds regularly were shifted from defense or international affairs to domestic spending. i strongly urge that each fiscal year separate national security and domestic allocations be made and enforced through a point of order provision in the budget act
(4) enhanced rescission authority. under current law, the president may propose rescissions of budget authority, but both houses of congress must act ``favorably'' for the rescission to take effect. in 1987, not a single rescission was enacted, or even voted on, before expiration of the 45-day deadline. i propose a change of law that would require the congress to vote ``up or down'' on any presidentially proposed rescission, thereby preventing the congress from ducking the issue by simply ignoring the proposed rescission and avoiding a recorded vote
(5) biennial budgeting. the current budget process consumes too much time and energy. a two-year budget cycle offers several advantages _ among them, a reduction in repetitive annual budget tasks, more time for consideration of key spending decisions in reconciliation, and less scope for gimmicks such as shifting spending from one year to the next. i call on the congress to adopt biennial budgeting
(6) truth in federal spending. _ as part of my economic bill of rights, i will shortly transmit legislation that will require any future legislation creating new federal programs to be deficit-neutral. in addition to requiring the concurrent enactment of equal amounts of program reductions or revenue increases, my proposal would require that all future legislation and regulations be accompanied by financial impact statements, including the effect on state and local governments
adoption of these reforms should enable the federal government to make informed decisions in a deliberate fashion that fosters rational priorities. the american people deserve no less from their elected representatives
looking back over the past seven years we can feel a sense of pride in our accomplishments. important tasks remain, however. the large and stubbornly persistent budget deficit has been a major source of frustration. it threatens our prosperity and our hopes for lessening the burden on future generations
two years ago, the legislative and executive branches of government responded to this threat by enacting the g-r-h act, which mandated gradual, orderly progress toward a balanced budget over the next several years. my budget achieves the 1989 target of the amended act while preserving legitimate programs for the aged and needy, providing for adequate national security, devoting more resources to other high-priority activities and doing so without raising taxes
my budget also embodies the bipartisan budget agreement reached last november. in presenting this budget, i am keeping my end of the bargain. i call upon the congress to uphold its end _ by ensuring that appropriations and other legislation are in full accord with the agreement. by exercising this measure of restraint and self-discipline, we can secure great benefits for the nation: a lower budget deficit, reduced demand on credit markets, more stable financial markets, a steadily declining trade deficit, and continued prosperity with non-inflationary growth. and, by reforming the budget process, the congress can improve its decisionmaking and garner the thanks of a grateful public. surely, these are small prices for what is at stake
ronald reagan
feb. 18, 1988 picking up in 5th graf pvs, the vice</note>
george bush flew to missouri today for the first campaign stop since his big new hampshire primary victory, saying he wouldn't change his recent grass-roots strategy and quickly visiting a truck stop to prove it
not long after arriving on air force two at springfield airport northwest of here, the vice president had his motorcade pull over for a stop at sto's auto and truck plaza
sticking with the strategy that had him visiting plants and driving heavy equipment in new hampshire, bush visited the tin lizzie restaurant at the truck stop, passed out vice presidential tie clips and bought two coffees
accompanied by rep. thomas coleman, r-mo., bush asked a woman, ``you gonna vote for this guy? then vote for his friend. he's for me.''
wending his way around the dining booths, bush told another woman, ``thought you were going to have a quiet cup of coffee, didn't you?''
on his arrival at the springfield airport, bush was greeted by a small but enthusiastic crowd as a school band played in a steady rain
proud to be back. we're going to keep talking about the issues,'' he said in a brief airport talk. ``i don't have to change one iota. the message that won in new hampshire is a good message for the entire united states.''
one day earlier, in washington, bush brushed aside sen. bob dole's complaints about bush's campaign statements
talk about the issues. keep it on a high plane,'' bush said in response to dole's accusation that he distorted the senator's record in new hampshire campaign advertising
bush said wednesday he didn't think his 9-point victory over the kansas senator in the gop primary was a fluke, although he said he will ``take nothing for granted'' in the coming southern and border-state contests
in missouri, he was scheduled to speak at high schools in monnett and friestatt before traveling to joplin to attend the ``ozark jubilee'' festival before heading to texas
the vice president, while deflecting criticism of the negative ads he ran in the waning days of the new hampshire campaign, told reporters wednesday he wanted to focus on issues, rather than personalities
you all want me to talk about senator dole. i want to talk about the issues,'' he said. ``you want to talk about history. i want to talk about the future.''
bush sidestepped any detailed response to dole's charge that the vice president had misstated his positions on tax increases, an oil import fee, and the intermediate-range nuclear forces treaty
asked point-blank whether he had lied about dole's record, the vice president replied, ``i think i said it wasn't true. ... i'm not going to dwell on it. you see, i don't want to be drawn into something like that.''
dole on wednesday portrayed bush and his campaign aides as the hatchet men of the gop presidential campaign. ``you're seeing a mean george bush,'' he said, and promised to swing back if attacked again
bush, during remarks to campaign staff workers at his national headquarters here, promised that he would hew closely to the new-look, grass roots-style campaign strategy he used in new hampshire as he seeks support in the the super tuesday primaries and caucuses on march 8
on that day, 16 states or territories will be holding republican primaries or caucuses, with more than 700 delegates at stake
we stayed on those issues (in new hampshire). we don't have to change a single thing,'' the vice president said
bush is scheduled to campaign in oklahoma city, okla. on friday, before returning to dallas to prepare for the gop candidate debate there. tuesday of this week; picks up 2nd graf pvs, bgng, `then, in.'</note>
president reagan has signed legislation designating tuesday of this week as lithuanian independence day, saying the united states will never recognize the ``forcible incorporation'' of lithuania into the soviet union
in a proclamation signed last week, reagan said lithuania enjoyed ``political and religious freedom for all citizens'' following its declaration of independence on feb. 16, 1918
then, in june 1940, the year after the signing of the molotov-ribbentrop pact, the soviet union invaded and illegally occupied lithuania and the other baltic states,'' the president said
the united states unequivocally condemned this violation of national sovereignty and national integrity, and ever since then our policy has remained consistent. we have never recognized the forcible incorporation of lithuania into the soviet union, and we never will,'' reagan said
police and civilian auxiliary officers prevented lithuanians from celebrating the 70th anniversaru of their short-lived independence on tuesday, and activists said four lithuanian nationalists were put under house arrest
thirty-two u.s. senators have written to soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev asking him not to interfere with planned demonstrations and religious services this week in the soviet republics of lithuania and eastonia. picks up 5th graf pvs, `mrs. higgins...' ^with pm-lebanon-kidnap bjt</note>
the father of marine lt. col. william r. higgins died today, one day after higgins was abducted in lebanon
william f. higgins, 72, died at 7:45 a.m. of heart failure at humana hospital audubon, said hospital spokeswoman donna hazle
he had been hospitalized with congestive heart failure, and his son came home in september on emergency leave from the middle east to see him. the marine's mother died in april 1979
the younger higgins' family had been trying to reach him with news that his father was near death when they learned of his kidnapping
we're very saddened. it's a double shot here, you might say,'' said harold fisher, who is married to higgins' sister, mary. ``it's been very trying times because we've been here at the hospital off and on for two weeks. then we hear this. if one thing's bad, two is worse.''
mary fisher told whas-tv that she called higgins' wife, marine maj. robin higgins, in woodbridge, va., on wednesday to get him home from lebanon as soon as possible so he could see his father before he died. that's when mrs. fisher learned of the abduction
mrs. higgins, who works in the pentagon's public affairs office, was informed of her husband's disappearance by the state department about 9 a.m. wednesday
mrs. higgins and daughter chrissy, 17, are ``hanging in there real well,'' said navy cmdr. robert prucha, a co-worker of mrs. higgins at the pentagon. the two are ``tough ladies.''
higgins' wife and daughter did not talk to reporters outside their home wednesday. prucha said mrs. higgins would continue to work full-time. ``she's going to continue to do what she does on a daily basis,'' he said
the pentagon said higgins, 43, was on temporary detail serving as the chief of the u.n. truce supervision organization's lebanon observer group
u.n. sources said higgins was kidnapped wednesday on the coastal highway between lebanon's southernmost port of tyre and the border town of naqoura, site of the u.n. force's headquarters. higgins was the only u.s. military person in lebanon allowed to travel alone and freely in the area
higgins' uncle, delbert eagle of lancaster, said he expects his nephew will act like an officer and a gentleman
he loves his country. ... i don't think they could bring enough pressure or pain to cause him to betray his country in any way. i think he would die first,'' said eagle, 86, a former circuit court judge
fisher said the father is too ill to understand what happened to his son
the man has not opened his eyes in a couple of days. there's no way he could be able to comprehend, although he may be able to hear,'' he said
higgins' family lived in central kentucky when he was born in nearby danville and later moved to louisville, where he graduated from southern high school in 1963
after graduating from miami university of ohio on a navy rotc scholarship in 1967, higgins earned masters' degrees in human resources management at pepperdine university in california and in political science at auburn in alabama
he fought in vietnam in 1968 and 1972, served as a rifle company commander in japan and north carolina and in various staff positions at the marine corps headquarters in washington and the pentagon. he graduated from the national war college in 1985
the united states and madagascar signed a $2.2 million agreement for a five-year national infant health vaccination program, the government announced thursday
the program, financed with a grant from the united states agency for international development, is aimed at reducing infant mortality in madagascar, an island nation in the indian ocean off the eastern coast of africa. madagascar's infant mortality rate was 109 per 1,000 births in 1985, according to the world bank
the island nation has a population of 10.6 million, growing at 2.8 percent a year
the project will be administered by the united nations children fund to vaccinate 7 million children ages 1-4, and 2.1 million children over 5. they will be vaccinated against tetanus, diptheria, measles and whooping cough
the program will also provide preventive malaria medicine and vaccination against tetanus for 2 million pregnant women
three soviet satellites designed to test space navigation equipment failed to reach proper orbit and burned up in the atmosphere, tass said thursday
tass said cosmos 1917, 1918 and 1919 were launched wednesday, but on thursday ``entered dense layers of the atmosphere and ceased their existence.''
the booster rocket placed the separation unit holding the satellites on an interim orbit, but the system then malfunctioned and the satellites fell from orbit, tass said
in august, tass announced that a 10-ton satellite had failed to reach orbit. the report apparently was the first time soviets announced beforehand that one of its satellites was dropping from orbit
that satellite fell into the ocean without causing any damage or injuries
editor's note _ this is one of a series of periodic reports compiled by associated press bureaus abroad on how the u.s. presidential race is viewed in other countries.</head>
here's what some major newspapers abroad had to say about tuesday's new hampshire primaries and some of the issues in the u.s. presidential election process
_the guardian (liberal):``if you are counting the odds at this stage, you may still feel (bob) dole a good bet for the republican nomination; but the prospect of a hung democratic convention and a good deal of brokering around the third ballot grows rather closer, together with the familiar prospect of a major opposition party so exhausted by fighting internally that it forgets that the point of the process doesn't come until november.''
_vittorio zucconi, commenting la repubblica of rome (left-leaning): ``the state of massachusetts, which about 28 years ago proposed to america the first catholic president in its history, is putting another challenge before the nation: the first candidate with a `foreign' name. the year 1988, which could have been the year of the italo-american (mario) cuomo, is becoming the year of the greek-american (michael) dukakis. ... the human comedy of the campaign has found a new protagonist in the 50-year-old `zorba' from boston.''
_the australian (independent, national): ``it now seems that the republican nominee will be either mr. bush or sen. dole. the vice-president has made a remarkable recovery but he also won new hampshire in 1980 over mr. reagan, who went on to win finally in a sweeping victory
gov. dukakis ... won little more than one-third of the votes in a state that borders his own massachusetts. this must mean that the outcome of the democratic contest is still wide open, even though some of the early starters will not remain to the end, and the possibility that the democratic party will draft gov. mario cuomo of new york cannot be put out of the question.''
_sydney morning herald (independent): bush's ``victory alone is unlikely to arrest the momentum of his leading rival, sen. bob dole. nor will it have discouraged southern supporters of the rev. pat robertson who, in the wake of iowa, threatens the republican party establishment
in the democratic primary, gov. michael dukakis emerged as a clear winner as expected. at this stage, however, his victory falls short of the conclusive kind of result which new hampshire has produced for the democrats in the past.''
_australian financial review: ``sen. bob dole lost new hampshire and perhaps let the presidency of the united states slip through his fingers because of a catastrophic tactical blunder
he let (bush) tag him as soft on tax rises in a low tax state. it saved his (bush's) political life and reestablished his claim as republican front runner and favorite for the nomination.''
_berlinske tidende of copenhagen (conservative): ``now that both bush and dole have shown what they're good for, they can go forward to prepare for a string of primaries on march 8 (super tuesday). and they can both be quite certain that it will be one or the other of them who will run against a democratic candidate in november.''
_arbeiderbladet of oslo (labor party): ``vice president george bush averted disaster in new hampshire, but the victory there does not mean that he can feel sure that he will be nominated. senator robert dole can still win nomination by winning the primaries in the southern states next month.''
_aftenposten of oslo (conservative): ``democrat michael dukakis ... has a good platform after winning in new hampshire. dukakis can ... be a strong challenger to bush, because he stands in the midst of the mainstream of american politics.''
_mainichi daily news (independent, english-language): ``during this voting in 20 states, will economic criticisms of japan and economic nationalism ... appear full blown in the efforts to gain votes? if the `japan problem' is taken up as a campaign issue to an unnecessary extent or in a mistaken manner, this may even affect japan-american political and economic relations. ..
at a time when the united states is suffering from huge trade and fiscal deficits to a greater extent than ever before, we would like to have the various presidential candidates carry out calm and conscientious policies vis-a-vis japan.''
_japan times (independent, english-language): ``the next u.s. president will, of course, face a multitude of ongoing domestic and international problems. our hope on this side of the pacific is that he be a leader of experience and integrity who, as needed, can be either patient or decisive.''
here is a list of the members of the communist party politburo, with the dates they were named to the ruling body:
mikhail s. gorbachev, 56, october 1980, soviet leader as party general secretary since march 11, 1985
andrei a. gromyko, 78, april 1973, named president in july 1985 after long service as foreign minister
nikolai i. ryzhkov, 58, april 1985, named premier sept. 27, 1985, succeeding nikolai a. tikhonov
vitaly i. vorotnikov, 62, december 1983, chairman of russian federation council of ministers
lev n. zaikov, 64, march 1986, specialist on defense industry, economics, replaced boris n. yeltsin as moscow party chief in november 1987
yegor k. ligachev, 67, april 1985, central commmittee secretary in charge of ideology
viktor p. nikonov, 58, june 1987, central committee agriculture secretary
nikolai n. slyunkov, 58, june 1987, party chief in the byelorussian republic, member of supreme soviet presidium
mikhail s. solomentsev, 74, december 1983, central committee secretary for party control
viktor m. chebrikov, 64, april 1985, head of committee for state security (kgb) and holds rank of general
eduard a. shevardnadze, 60, july 1985, named foreign minsiter, succeeding gromyko
vladimir v. shcherbitsky, 70, november 1979, party chief in the republic of the ukraine, member supreme soviet presidium
alexander n. yakovlev, 64, june 1987, central committee propaganda chief, former ambassador to canada
yuri d. maslyukov, 50, february 1988, replaced nikolai v. talyzin as chairman of the powerful state planning committee, deputy chairman council of ministers
georgy p. razumovsky, 52, february 1988, central committee secretary, chief of department for party organizational work
pyotr n. demichev, 70, november 1964, first deputy chairman of supreme soviet presidium
vladimir i. dolgikh, 63, may 1982, central committee secretary for heavy industry
yuri f. solovev, 62, march 1986, leningrad regional party chief, member of supreme soviet presidium
nikolai v. talyzin, 58, october 1985, former chairman of the state planning committee and current first deputy premier and chairman of the government's social development bureau
dmitri t. yazov, 64, june 1987, defense minister holding rank of army general, former commander of the far east military district
the government of chad appealed for emergency aid thursday to combat an epidemic of sleeping sickness it says has affected more than 10,000 people in the southern part of the landlocked african nation
the chad embassy in paris said the areas of randa, dobana, belama and tapol near the headwaters of the logone river were the worst affected
the health services can no longer cope with the number of victims, who are being accommodated in tents or temporary shelters,'' the embassy said
sleeping sickness is caused by a microscopic organism known as a trypanosome that enters the bloodstream through the bite of the bloodsucking tse-tse fly. the often-fatal disease is related to encephalitis and is permanently present in many parts of equatorial africa, although rarely on an epidemic scale
a military jury today began deliberations in the retrial of marine cpl. lindsey scott on charges he raped and tried to kill another marine's wife
i am very confident that we will win it,'' scott's father, james, said. ``i just think there's justice in the world.''
attorneys for both sides in scott's second court-martial wrapped up their cases wednesday
civilian defense attorney john leino charged that the naval investigative service used improper lineup techniques and led the victim to her identification of scott. he said there was no forensic evidence linking scott to the april 1983 crime
scott, 32, of louisville, ky., was convicted of abduction, rape, sodomy and attempted murder, but the verdict was overturned july 7 by the u.s. military court of appeals on grounds he had an inadequate defense
leino said prosecutors also convinced the victim that scott committed the crime. ``in her mind, someone has to pay,'' he said
leino said it is ludicrous to believe that scott, ``a good marine, nothing but a good person,'' snapped and committed a heinous crime
military prosecutor maj. ron mcneil focused on the testimony of four investigators who said the passenger side of scott's car had been wiped down the day after the attack at the quantico marine corps base
was there a conspiracy here to make this up?'' mcneil said. ``absolutely not. there's no conspiracy here.''
we think that the motive in this case was sex ... and we believe that the intent was murder,'' mcneil said
mcneil also noted the victim positively identified scott as her assailant from the witness stand and from physical and photographic lineups
scott's chief alibi witness, cynthia ausby, testified she saw scott in a store where she worked as a security guard at the time of the rape. the store is about 15 minutes from the base
president reagan asked congress on thursday for a new tax break to help parents finance a college education for their children
in a budget recommending only a few tax changes, reagan called for requiring all state and local government employees to pay a tax for medicare coverage. he proposed a permanent tax benefit for owners of shares in mutual funds and an expanded break for independent oil producers
in general, reagan's proposed budget for the 12 months beginning next oct. 1 reflect his reluctance to recommend tax expenditures that would worsen the federal deficit, and his opposition to raising taxes to cut that deficit
however, in his written message to congress, the president noted that ``costs of post-secondary education have increased substantially in recent years, often faster than inflation. as a result, parents may have difficulty bearing these costs unless they establish a savings program for this purpose when their chidren are young.''
to help solve that problem, reagan said he will propose that congress exempt from taxation the interest earned on certain bonds that are redeemed to pay for college or vocational education of a taxpayer, spouse or dependents
the tax exclusion would be targeted on lower- and middle-income taxpayers and would be phased out as incomes rise. neither the limitation on how much interest could be excluded nor the phase-out level has been decided by the reagan administration
the idea is not a new one; in fact, several bills with a considerable amount of support are pending in congress to achieve the same goal
one bill, by rep. pat williams, d-mont., would allow a family to buy a maximum of $2,000 worth of tax-free bonds per year. if the bonds were cashed for any purpose other than education, the interest would be taxed and the owner would have to pay a 10-percent penalty
williams' bill would allow the interest exclusion for regular savings bonds that students already own, assuming those bonds are used to finance an education. reagan's proposal would allow the benefit only for bonds issued after 1988
the administration estimates its proposal would cost the government $10 million next year. by 1991, that would rise to $100 million
other revenue proposals in the budget would:
_require all state and local government employees to pay the 1.45-percent medicare tax. most workers, including state-local employees hired after march 31, 1986, already pay the tax as part of their social security payroll tax. the president wants all hired before that date to pay as well, on grounds most of them are eligible for medicare benefits through their spouse or by having worked previously in a non-government job. this would cost those workers $1.6 billion in 1989 and $2.1 billion in 1990
_make permanent a one-year tax break enacted in december for owners of mutual-fund shares, saving those shareholders $400 million a year
one provision in the 1986 tax overhaul allows deduction of miscellaneous expenses _ such as union dues _ only to the extent they exceed 2 percent of adjusted gross income. the law also requires mutual funds to pass along to shareholders certain costs of managing the funds, which must be reported as income. without the special tax break, many shareholders would have no way of deducting those costs
_make permanent a special tax credit, expiring at the end of 1988, for increased expenditures for research and experimentation. this costs the government $400 million a year
_allow u.s. companies that operate abroad to allocate at least two-thirds of their research expenses to domestic income, saving them $600 million a year
_permit the targeted-jobs tax credit _ under which the government pays a share of the wages of poorer workers _ to expire as scheduled at the end of 1988
_repeal the ``windfall-profit'' tax on the oil industry, which was enacted in 1980 to take a portion of sharply rising oil prices. reagan says the tax makes no sense now that prices have fallen significantly
_modify rules under which independent oil producers may claim the oil-depletion deduction. the changes would allow the deduction even when certain oil properties are obtained from major oil companies and even when the writeoff exceeds net-income limitations. this would save producers $52 million in 1989
_repeal a congressional provision that would automatically cut taxes on airline tickets and aviation fuel when federal spending for airport and airways improvements drops below a certain level
for 11 days in february, violent rains punished brazil's rio de janeiro state, killing at least 198 people and leaving 11,000 homeless. petropolis, a city of 300,000 in the mountains 40 miles north of the city of rio, was the hardest hit. at least 167 people died there in mud avalanches and floods. here is a report by an ap correspondent who was in petropolis during the rains
waldemar ferreira was the only bus driver to brave the winding mountain road up from rio in a driving rain on feb. 5 _ a friday night. but he wanted to be with his family for dinner
it was to be his last
ferreira almost didn't go. it had been raining hard since the previous monday and there were no signs it would let up. petropolis always gets rain during the south american summer, but this was twice as much as normal
just after sunset, ferreira climbed aboard the bus and began the route he had driven for 40 years. he was 64 now, getting close to retirement
at 11 p.m., ferreira finally pulled into the petropolis bus station, 40 miles north of rio, and the 60 passengers applauded. it was raining harder
a few minutes later, ferreira dashed up the steps of his five-room, 70-year-old concrete house that was nestled piggyback on the side of a tree-covered hill on casimiro de abreu street. his wife was waiting for him, along with his daughter, sonia, her two children, and his daughter, maria, and her husband, andre fernandes
at 11:15 p.m., ferreira sat down to dinner. maria and her husband said good night and left for their own nearby house. it was the last time they would see each other
fernandes learned afterward that a concerned friend had called his father-in-law to see if all was well. fernandes said his father-in-law told the caller he thought he heard a strange, loud noise, then he hung up. it was 10 minutes to midnight
at that precise moment, two lovers in a volkswagen beetle outside were exchanging a good-night kiss
two houses away, preparations were under way for a sweet 16 birthday party on saturday. relatives of the birthday girl had come all the way from neighboring minas gerais state to decorate the house and make snacks
in another house, maria ismenia aleixo was putting her 9-year-old son carlinhos to bed and was preparing to go to bed herself. her mother, father and sister already were asleep
then their world fell in
the noise ferreira heard was a mudslide. it got louder as tons of water and wet earth raced down the slope and slammed into the houses on casimiro de abreu street with such force that their concrete shells seemed to explode. the avalanche destroyed houses, cars and furniture, leaving only a slick-surfaced mass grave
ms. aleixo ran outside as soon as she heard the noise. she looked up at the wall of mud looming above her and screamed. then she, too, was buried in the reddish-brown slime
i heard an incredible noise, like an airplane taking off. i rushed to my gate in time to see electric wires exploding and power posts toppling at the end of the street,'' said nair hoelz, a longtime resident who lived nearby
people began screaming for neighbors along the hillside to turn on their car lights. then all we could see was mud where eight homes had been.''
on sunday, feb. 9., rescue workers pulled ms. aleixo and two neighbors alive from the mud-covered rubble where fallen beams had left enough space for pockets
there were no other survivors on casimiro de abreu street
i didn't have time to grab my son or even to think,'' ms. aleixo, 42, said from her hospital bed. ``i'm a single mother. my son was my whole life. my joy came from watching him grow up.''
over an eight-day period, rescue crews using tractors along casimiro de abreu street found soft-drink bottles, a mattress, bits of clothing, three crushed cars and 18 bodies. among them were waldemar ferreira, his wife, daughter, sonia, and two grandchildren
he rushed home that night to die. it's like something that was meant to be,'' said son-in-law fernandes, 33
the mudslides destroyed more than 1,000 houses in petropolis, from slum shacks to wealthy residences with swimming pools. civil defense officials evacuated 94 areas in 28 neighborhoods and condemned 4,000 to 5,000 houses and apartments
carlos eurico aragao, an engineer who heads petropolis' public works department, said bad planning and excessive logging were reasons behind the disaster. he estimated that 80 percent of the city's buildings were on unsafe ground and 50 percent of those that suffered damage unrecoverable
this city grew too quickly,'' he said. ``it was not well planned even when brazil's former emperors built it in the 1800s.'' petropolis grew from a sleepy royal summer getaway to a popular resort for the rich and also a ``dormitory community'' for poor inhabitants with jobs in and around rio
many in town blamed three-term mayor paulo rattes for ignoring a 1978 environmental report that predicted just such a catastrophe from deforestation. city hall also was accused of not making needed imporvements in drainage, shoring up hillsides and relocating the most dangerously situated homes, principally slum shacks
basically this is a social problem, one of underdevelopment,'' rattes said in an interview. many people here earn the minimum wage, equal to just under $60 a month, and he said they ``build their houses however and wherever they can.''
the mayor estimated total damage at $50 million
even while rescuers were searching for dead bodies, and it still was raining and more mudslides were occurring, many in petropolis were reluctant to evacuate to government shelters
my husband was raised in this house,'' said jurema valente, 53, as she tearfully packed her few possessions and finally agreed to get out of her three-room mud-brick house
i have nowhere else to go and no way to build another house. this has been my life. how could i start again?'' she asked
mrs. valente, whose husband earns about $50 a month as a furniture maker, said she planned to return home as soon as the rains ended. but the city had condemned her street _ enchantment street, in portuguese _ as one of the area's highest risk zones
the robbery and assault convictions of wai-chiu tony ng, the last of the defendants in the 1983 massacre of 13 people in a chinatown gambling parlor, were upheld today by washington's supreme court
the leader of the robbery-killings at seattle's wah mee club, kwan fai willie mak, is facing the death penalty and benjamin kin ng was sentenced to life without possibility of parole in the killings, the deadliest mass murder in state history
the court was unanimous in upholding the 13 robbery counts and a single second-degree assault count against ng, no relation to benjamin ng. he faces seven consecutive life terms for seven of the robberies, with the six remaining robbery counts and the 10-year assault sentences running concurrently with the life terms
tony ng was charged with felony murder in all 13 deaths, but the prosecution did not seek the death penalty. he consistently denied he killed any of the victims and claimed he was forced by mak under threat of death to participate in the robbery
he was convicted in king county superior court in 1985 of the lesser charges
twelve of the 13 victims at the wah mee club were tied and shot in the head execution-style to leave no witnesses. one victim, wai yok chin, survived critical gunshot wounds to identify the assailants
mak and benjamin ng were arrested and tried separately. tony ng, whose family moved to seattle from hong kong when he was a youth, escaped. he was arrested for immigration violations about 18 months later in calgary, canada. he gave a confession to canadian and seattle police officers
tony ng sought reversal of his convictions, contending that his canadian confession was wrongly admitted at trial. he also contended his convictions are inconsistent with his acquittal on the murder charges
but the court, in an opinion by justice robert f. brachtenbach, rejected both contentions
the court said that tony ng's confession was voluntary and if it was incorrectly admitted the action was harmless because there was ample other evidence
where the jury's verdict is supported by sufficient evidence from which it could rationally find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt, we will not reverse on grounds the guilty verdict is inconsistent with acquittal on another count,'' the court said
here are some highlights of president reagan's budget message to congress
by reordering priorities so that we spend more on national security and less on wasteful or unnecessary federal programs, we have made freedom more secure around the world and have been able to negotiate with our adversaries from a position of strength
by pursuing market-oriented economic policies, we have uncorked the genie of american enterprise and created new businesses, more jobs, improved production, and widespread prosperity
and we have done all this without neglecting the poor, the elderly, the infirm, and the unfortunate among us
this budget does not fully reflect my priorities, nor, presumably, those of any particular member of congress
but the goal of deficit reduction through spending reduction must be paramount
abandoning the deficit reduction compromise would threaten our economic progress and burden future generations
i propose an increase of $656 million ... for discretionary programs of the department of education. although state and local governments fund most educational activity, federal programs provide crucial aid for the poor, the handicapped, and the educationally disadvantaged
i have proposed reform of our overcentralized welfare system through state experimentation with innovative alternatives...
ineffective programs to assist dislocated workers would be replaced by an expanded $1 billion worker readjustment program (wrap) carefully designed to help those displaced from their jobs move quickly into new careers
i propose a continued increase in federally supported basic research aimed at longer-term improvements in the nation's productivity and global competitiveness...
i would provide $11.5 billion for space programs...
i also recommend $363 million in 1989 to initiate construction of the superconducting super collider (ssc), including $283 million for construction and $60 million for supporting research and development...
i continue to urge enactment of an affordable self-financing insurance program through medicare to protect families from economic devastation caused by catastrophic illness
to attack the scourge of aids, i propose $2 billion for additional research, education, and treatment in 1989 _ a 38 percent increase over the 1988 level...
building upon the nation's pre-eminence in basic biomedical research, i seek a 5.1 percent increase for non-aids research at the national institutes of health
for expanded law enforcement ... i propose $4.5 billion _ an increase of 6 percent over 1988
for drug law enforcement, prevention, and treatment programs, i propose $3.9 billion in 1989, a 13 percent increase over the 1988 level
to relieve prison overcrowding and adequately house a growing inmate population, i would provide $437 million _ more than double the $202 million devoted to federal prison construction in 1988
for the federal aviation administration to continue its multiyear program to modernize the nation's air traffic control systems, i would provide $1.6 billion _ a 44 percent increase over the level of 1988
to carry out the joint recommendations of the u.s. and canadian special envoys on acid rain, i recommend total funding of $2.5 billion for innovative clean coal technology demonstration projects over the period 1988 through 1992
i also recommend an expansion of hazardous waste cleanup efforts, with an increase in superfund outlays of some $430 million in 1989
to continue filling the strategic petroleum reserve (spr) at the current rate of 50,000 barrels per day, i would provide $334 million in 1989. contingent upon the enactment of legislation authorizing the sale of the naval petroleum reserves (npr), i would provide an additional $477 million to bring the fill rate up to 100,000 barrels per day...
to improve the speed and accuracy of tax processing and expand information services provided to taxpayers, i would provide a $241 million increase for the internal revenue service...
the proposals for national security contained in this budget represent an essential minimum program for keeping america safe and honoring our commitments to our friends and allies...
...my budget requests defense funding of $299.5 billion in budget authority and $294 billion in outlays for 1989. it also provides for about 2 percent real growth in these programs in future years...
...i plan to continue pushing for the elimination of artificially high (farm) price supports, thereby reducing the need for export subsidies
the budget proposes certain reforms in the medicare program ... to limit payments for certain overpriced physician procedures, limit payments for durable medical equipment and supplies, and eliminate a loophole in the payment process for kidney dialysis. in total, these reforms would reduce spending for medicare by $1.2 billion from the level that would occur if current law were continued
the government often continues programs at the federal level that are no longer needed. this is the case with rural housing programs, the economic development administration, urban mass transit discretionary grants, urban development action grants, sewage treatment, small business administration direct loans, housing development action grants, the housing rehabilitation loan program, and economic development programs of the tennessee valley authority...
...my budget proposes termination of the interstate commerce commission, contingent upon enactment of legislation that completes deregulation of the motor carrier industry
...i am proposing the sale not only of the naval petroleum reserves, but also of the alaska power administration, the federal government's helium program, excess real property and a further $12 billion in loan portfolios. in addition, i have proposed legislation to authorize a study of possible divestiture of the southeastern power administration, and plan to study possible privatization of our uranium enrichment facilities, as well as ways of making the u.s. postal service more efficient through greater reliance on the private sector
i am proposing the development of a private mediating institution to reduce the backlog of cases before the u.s. tax court.... i also encourage the complete privatization of wastewater treatment plants, certain mass transit projects, the department of agriculture's national finance center and the rural telephone bank
...our administration plans to initiate privatization and commercialization efforts involving federal prison industries, relying on a private space facility for micro-gravity research opportunities in the early 1990s, commercial cargo inspection, military commissaries, coast guard buoy maintenance and the management of undeveloped federal land. moreover, my budget proposes that the work associated with certain federal employment positions be reviewed for the feasibility of contracting their responsibilities...
...i propose in this budget a new approach to paying federal employees who increase their productivity. i ask the congress to modify the current system of virtually automatic ``within-grade'' pay increases for the roughly 40 percent of employees eligible each year to one that is based on employee performance
...a constitutional amendment to balance the federal budget _ and a provision requiring a super-majority vote in the congress to increase taxes _ would impose some much-needed discipline on the congressional budget process
i will shortly transmit legislation that will require any future legislation creating new federal programs to be deficit-neutral...requiring the concurrent enactment of equal amounts of program reductions or revenue increases.... picks up 8th graf, house minority; inserts grafs 10-11, `we don't.'</note>
president reagan said today he wants ``to rescue'' lt. col. william r. higgins, abducted while working for the united nations in lebanon, but officials said the president was referring to a multinational, diplomatic effort
reagan was queried, during a photo session on the budget with congressional leaders, about u.s. efforts to find higgins
we're doing everything we can,'' reagan responded. ``we're trying to find out as much as we can. we're trying to get him located, and certainly we want to rescue him.''
asked what such a rescue would entail, state department spokesman charles e. redman said, ``i think the president is making a reference there to all of our efforts to stay in touch with parties in the region, with the united nations, to explore every possibility, to see if colonel higgins can be safely returned.''
there has been no mention by officials at the state department, pentagon or white house of any u.s. military action to rescue higgins. instead, officials repeatedly have emphasized that higgins is under u.n. authority and control
redman denied assertions by the group claiming responsiblity for higgins' abduction that the marine officer worked for the central intelligence agency. the spokesman said the group, the islamic revolutionary brigade, was not known to u.s. authorities
house minority leader robert michel, r-ill, also played down reagan's remark about a rescue. ``i think that was, maybe, just an off-the-cuff remark of the president,'' said michel, who was present when reagan said it
michel said he always has been supportive of u.n. operations, but that his advice would be for american servicemen would be to keep out of lebanon
the reagan administration, reaffirmed in strong terms, its determination to continue supplying american soldiers for the united nations truce supervisory organization, not just in the middle east, but in lebanon
we don't intend to let terrorists determine our policies or deter us from fulfilling our duties,'' redman said
it's an important mission; it's one we've been at for a long time; it's one that we share with a large number of other nations,'' redman said
he declined, however, to say if any new instructions would be sent to the remaining americans
higgins was seized on wednesday while traveling in south lebanon on official business as a member of the untso. he and a number of other americans _ the state department said less than 20 _ are members of the untso team assigned to keep the truce along the israeli-lebanese border
since 1949, other untso teams observe peacekeeping efforts along israel's borders with syria, jordan and egypt as well as lebanon
higgins' abduction brings to nine the number of americans seized in recent years in lebanon
redman drew a distinction between american civilians _ who have been ordered out of lebanon _ and u.s. troops assigned to the united nations peacekeeping efforts
since the wave of kidnappings began, the state department has been warning americans to stay out of the country. last year, after three more americans were seized, use of a u.s. passport to travel to lebanon was banned
in this particular case, the individual u.s. officer was under the responsibility, authority and control of the united nations in his role as a member of the united nations supervisory organization,'' redman said
redman said he did not know if any special instructions were given to the u.s. personnel in light of the dangers, but added, ``as i say, these people are not under our operational control at all.''
another state department official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the practice of the american military people observing the israeli-lebanese frontier was to stay at the border, but one u.s. soldier _ higgins in this particular case _ was permitted to travel further northward
this is not the case of a lone american straying off into a place he wasn't supposed to be,'' said one official. ``he was assigned to a task; he was doing his job. there are a lot of people from many countries on these observer teams and it's dangerous for all of them.''
the official said three untso members, none of them american, have been killed in lebanon since 1982
the death rate from strokes is falling about 6 percent annually, but the disease will still cost americans nearly $13 billion this year, according to a medical report released thursday
despite its declining mortality rate, stroke remains the third-leading cause of death in the united states after heart disease and cancer
a report released by the american heart association showed that stroke also continues to be a major financial burden
this year, the association estimates that $9.2 billion will be spent on hospital and nursing home care alone for stroke victims, who are often left paralyzed by their disease. when doctor and nurse bills, medicine and lost productivity are added, the total annual cost of strokes in 1988 will be an estimated $12.9 billion
in 1985, the last year for which statistics are available, about 500,000 americans suffered strokes; 152,700 of them died. about a third of all survivors need help caring for themselves
not all the statistics are bad, however. the decline in the stroke death rate has been picking up speed in recent years
the death rate is falling very dramatically,'' said dr. philip a. wolf of boston university medical school
for the past four decades, the death rate from stroke has been dropping at a rate of about 1 percent a year. but since 1973, that decline has averaged 5.7 percent a year
no one knows precisely why this cause of death is becoming less common. however, the risk of heart attacks is also going down, and many experts believe the same factors are involved in curbing both diseases
a lot of people think the control of blood pressure, changes in lifestyles, changes in diet, more exercise and more health consciousness are affecting vascular (blood vessel) disease in general,'' said dr. louis r. caplan of tufts medical school in boston and chairman of the heart association's stroke council
wolf, who is also an epidemiologist at the long-running framingham heart study, said that control of blood pressure appears to be the single most important of these factors
he noted that when even mildly elevated blood pressure is brought down through drugs and behavior changes, people's risk of stroke is cut in half
a stroke occurs when the blood supply in the brain is disrupted. often a blood clot chokes off an artery, starving brain cells of oxygen. strokes also occur when blood vessels burst and flood brain tissue with blood
traditionally, doctors have been able to do little for patients except send them to hospitals, where they are taught to live with their disabilities. however, that is beginning to change, caplan said
a lot of us are hoping that new technology, used in patients who are diagnosed correctly, may do a lot to help patients get better,'' he said in an interview
caplan said that new diagnostic machines are becoming available that can help doctors pinpoint precisely where inside the head the blood vessels are in danger of clogging or breaking. strokes may then be prevented with surgery or treatment
doctors also are experimenting with drugs that may minimize the damage of strokes once they occur
most people have treated stroke casually,'' said caplan. ``they say there's nothing you can do but rehabilitate the patient. the excitement is that we are starting to have the technology and ability to do something.''
however, he said that most of the new tools and expertise are now available only at large medical centers. he recommended that stroke patients be sent to the big hospitals for diagnosis
former arizona gov. bruce babbitt on thursday became the first democrat to quit the presidential race in 1988, declaring an end to an underdog candidacy that he called ``the greatest joy of my entire public life.''
babbitt told a roomful of family, supporters and reporters that he is abandoning the race in the wake of dismal showings in iowa and new hampshire but he is not abandoning his cause _ ``an america that comes to grips with its future.''
babbitt said he will not yet endorse any of the six remaining democratic contenders. ``they are all first-rate people and i could support any one of them,'' he said
babbitt, whose campaign was centered around economic themes including a frank call for a national sales tax, said the democrats must ``give our country a compelling reason to elect us to power.''
i'm going to wait and watch and do everything i can to insure the success of our party,'' he said
babbitt finished fifth in iowa last week and sixth in new hampshire on tuesday
he seemed relaxed and even upbeat as he explained that probably ``a thousand things'' went wrong for his campaign
ultimately, he likened his race to a stranger riding into town for a fourth of july party and telling everyone that the party is over and it's time to rebuild the town
it's asking an awful lot in the course of a campaign before the american people, to say, consider both a new messenger and a challenging and different message,'' he said
throughout his news conference, babbitt displayed the self-deprecating wit he has carried through the campaign that he launched last march 10
babbitt joked that his appearance on nbc's comedy show, ``saturday night live,'' was ``undoubtedly the high point of this campaign.''
asked if he was worried about the nation's future if taxes are not increased to reduce the huge budget deficit, he quipped, ``look, i'm not going to slash my throat if we don't raise taxes tomorrow.''
and he said one friend told him, ``you fought a good fight, you were in it right up to the beginning.''
i don't know why we fared no better. i'll leave that for others to ponder,'' he said
as his wife hattie and two young sons looked on, babbitt said, ``this campaign has been the hardest work and greatest joy of my entire public life. i'll not forget any of it.''
hinting at a possible future candidacy, he added: ``i can't say i'd rush to do it again, but i might.''
indeed, die-hard babbitt admirers at his campaign office in concord, n.h., answered the phone ``babbitt in '92.''
he recalled the occasions during his campaign when he asked people to stand up if they supported his call for candor, especially his plan to tackle the federal deficit with a national sales tax
i'll never forget the people in audience after audience who stood up out of their chair to join me in a demonstration of belief for the politics of truth,'' he said
asked if he would consider the vice-presidential spot, he quipped, ``my advice to the nominee would be ... `you probably ought to select a vice-presidential candidate from a state with more than seven electoral votes.'''
he added that if reincarnated he would try to be from the neighboring delegate-rich state of texas
referring to the generally favorable press coverage he received, babbitt jokingly accused reporters of ``a deliberate conspiracy to destroy my candidacy by making me into kind of a house pet ... to destroy my credibility with the american people.''
babbitt was the subject of many favorable articles, often focusing on the substance of his economic proposals, his willingness to risk the unpopular tax-increase message, and his generally unpretentious style
in new hampshire, babbitt had hoped to get at least 10 percent but he garnered only 5 percent, ahead of only former sen. gary hart
hart urged him to stay in the contest when the two spoke tuesday night, and told him, ``you've got something to say. you're a courageous guy,'' babbitt related
babbitt's staff said the campaign has about $150,000 to $200,000 in bills to pay off
his announcement thursday concluded a campaign that used often non-traditional attention-getters _ his bicycle ride across iowa, an ascent of mount washington in new hampshire, and a rugged cross-country ski tour in northern arizona
he said his immediate plans include a trip to mexico with his family and doing fix-up work around his arizona home
asked how he will now earn a living, babbitt smiled broadly and cocked his head toward his attorney wife, saying, ``hattie?''
a few well-earned wrinkles adorn the cover-girl's face on lear's, a stylish new magazine that celebrates ``the woman who wasn't born yesterday.''
i feel a kind of earthquake of women over 40 who are going to change life for themselves for the better,'' said publisher frances lear, 64, whose magazine hits the newsstands tuesday. ``it's going to be a greater movement than the women's movement.''
for members of this new movement, lear, the former wife of television producer norman lear, blends a dash of fashion with no-nonsense financial advice and some savvy writing
once upon a time,'' says her first editorial, ``a woman took the events of her life, added the pluses and deducted the minuses, and lived with that arithmetic. no more.''
lear, a longtime supporter of women's causes, knows all about change _ and about bouncing back
divorced after a 28-year marriage to norman lear, she left california for her hometown, new york, carrying two suitcases of clothes and the germ of an idea
i could never look like linda evans,'' lear confides in a letter to potential subscribers. ``the women's magazines were urging me to travel, but every resort showed pictures of slim young women in bikinis.''
what was needed, she decided, was a magazine for women like her: educated, affluent and over 40. ``it took a woman to see it,'' she said
armed with the dream, connections and money, but lacking know-how, she spent 2{ years picking the brains of the publishing world
the last person i spoke to was (new york magazine creator) clay felker, who said, `do it. just do it.' and i did,'' she said. ``i was ecstatic that i would be writing and working for women, about whom i care a great deal.''
during the late 1960s, lear founded women's place inc., a los angeles consulting firm. she later began lear purvis walker &amp; co., an executive search firm for women. in 1984, as a partner in a political consulting firm, she founded a division for women candidates
the magazine, she said, ``is a fusion of my experience and the women i've worked with for the past 25 years, who ranged from welfare mothers to highly skilled executives.''
it's the female executives _ or wives of executives _ who make up lear's guaranteed circulation of 200,000. (the first issue, which ran 475,000 copies, was expected to sell out.) market research shows the subscribers' average household income is $92,400
lear, in fact, is using her own money to start the magazine. ``by the time it's in the black (she hopes in two to three years), i will have spent $25 million,'' she said
six issues are planned for this year and 10 for the second year
the ads and richly colored, high-fashion spreads feature over-40 models whenever possible. (they're in scarce supply
we believe that lear's will spark a whole culture,'' she said. ``products, instruction, entertainment, recreation _ this whole market will have their own world of toys to choose from.''
the copy ranges from humor, essays and fiction to advice on treasury bills and an interview with philippine president corazon aquino, who defends her feminine style in the political arena
we have presented women over 40 who are absolutely beautiful and sensual and intelligent and character-ful,'' said lear. ``it informs, it entertains, it impels, inspires.''
the feminism is soft-pedaled. ``the militant views of the early feminists are long gone, and feminism is settling into a more middle-of-the-road posture,'' she said. ``but the word `feminist' still conjures up witches in some minds.''
profiles mention the potholes on a woman's road to success: difficult upbringing, multiple divorces, adjustment to the aging process. good marriages also get a mention
it is noteworthy to have a happy marriage. ... i think all women are basically traditional, and want love and home and family,'' said lear. ``and a divorce is a major event in a person's life. to leave it out would be to leave out one's education.''
lear said 17 percent of her readers are under 30. ``they say, `we want to know what it's like to be 40.'''
i believe the second half of one's life is meant to be better than the first half,'' she said. ``the first half is finding out how you do it. and the second half is enjoying it.''
a judge has denied a newspaper story that accused him of approving a large attorney's fee for wedtech scandal figure e. robert wallach after asking wallach to lobby for his federal judgeship
the story in tuesday's san francisco chronicle said former superior court judge eugene lynch granted wallach and his partner a $1 million fee in september 1981, during the period the white house was considering lynch's appointment to the federal bench
lynch was appointed a federal judge in january 1982
the article is misleading in at least one vital respect and should be corrected,'' said lynch in a statement wednesday
contrary to the story's implication,'' wrote lynch, ``it is a matter of public record ... that i did not finally approve the attorneys' fees that were the focus of the story. rather, in an order dated dec. 24, 1981, i deferred determination of the amount and a different judge ultimately dealt with the matter and approved fees.''
the judge added: ``i reiterate that in my 16 years on the bench i have never been improperly influenced in any decision by any of my many professional or social relationships with members of the bar
finally, i know of nothing that was improper or unusual about the process of my appointment to the federal bench.''
alan d. mutter, the chronicle's assistant managing editor-metro, said today, ``i think if you read our story carefully it answers all the questions, and we stand by our story.''
the chronicle story lynch, in an interview with the paper, acknowledged seeking help from wallach for the federal court appointment and that wallach was a friend of long standing
wallach was indicted last month in new york on charges of influence peddling for allegedly taking payments from wedtech, a defense contract in new york city, to lobby edwin meese iii before he became attorney general to get the company government contracts
as the youngest members of the ruling politburo, georgy p. razumovsky and yuri d. maslyukov could see the reforms pushed by soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev carried further than their colleagues
razumovksy, 52, and maslyukov, 50, were elevated thursday to non-voting membership on the politburo by the communist party central committee, which has the power to make personnel changes on the politburo. boris n. yeltsin, the former moscow party boss, lost his politburo post
razumovsky is an agricultural specialist who has close ties to gorbachev, and maslyukov is a top manager of the centrally planned economy
gorbachev was razumovsky's superior as department chief in the council of ministers. the kremlin chief, who was responsible for agriculture before becoming party general secretary, frequently has consulted with razumovsky on farm policy
razumovsky also holds the powerful post of secretary of the central committee in charge of appointing party personnel as chief of the department for party organizational work
maslyukov is a deputy chairman of the government's council of ministers and is on the panel's presidium. he was named earlier this month to be chairman of the state planning committee, which plays a key role in the country's centrally managed economy. as head of the committee, maslyukov replaced nikolai v. talyzin, whose performance gorbachev had criticized
the 58-year-old talyzin, however, retained his candidate post on the politburo on thursday. earlier this month, talyzin was made head of the obscure social development bureau
maslyukov holds an engineering degree and has become a specialist in weapons, serving in a number of posts in the soviet defense industry. he chairs the presidium's military-industrial commission
the politburo, whose size varies, now has seven candidate members. no new voting members of the ruling body were appointed, leaving that number at 13
removal of the towering 57-year-old yeltsin ends a tumultuous five months. he was one of the strongest advocates of gorbachev's reforms but generated controversy because of a speech he gave at the central committee's last plenary meeting, on oct. 21. yeltsin said reform was proceeding too slowly and attacked the party's style of leadership under gorbachev. he offered to resign
yeltsin was removed from the moscow party leadership on nov. 11, but a week later was named first deputy director of the state construction committee, with the rank of government minister. since then, his name has been mentioned in the press without references to his politburo job, a sign he would be ousted
gorbachev denounced yeltsin for being overly ambitious. yeltsin was quoted as saying: ``i am very guilty before the moscow party organization, very guilty before the city party committee, and certainly i am very guilty before mikhail sergeyevich gorbachev, whose prestige in our organization, in our country, and in the whole world is so high.''
also thursday, the central committee named oleg d. baklanov as one of its secretaries. baklanov, 55, was appointed minister of general machine building in 1983. defendant's statment today. picks up 9th graf pvs, `conspiracy to...'</note>
the defense in the sedition trial of 14 men linked with white supremacist groups told a federal jury that a key witness for the government's case is a liar who had himself crowned king of the ozarks
the charge came during opening statements wednesday in which the prosecutor said that leaders of white supremacist groups gathered in 1983 to discuss poisoning the water supplies of new york and washington, d.c., and establishing an aryan nation
louis ray beam jr., 41, of houston, a defendant who is representing himself, told the u.s. district court jury to expect ``a fairy tale of lies'' from the man he called the prosecution's star witness, james b. ellison
ellison, who is serving a 20-year prison term for racketeering and weapons offenses, was leader of an arkansas-based group named the covenant, the sword and the arm of the lord
wayland parker, attorney for defendant lambert miller, said ellison once went off into the woods, fasted and came out declaring that god had told him he was king of the ozarks
this would be foolishness if they weren't trying to put innocent men in jail,'' beam said, urging jurors to look for signs of untruthfulness when ellison testifies
beam is among 10 men charged with conspiring to overthrow the government by force starting at a 1983 meeting attended by beam, ellison and others. beam said he never met ellison until that meeting and knows nothing of any conspiracy
it's a good story, but that's all it is,'' beam said
ardie mcbrearty, 60, of gentry, ark., another of the 10 charged with conspiring to overthrow the government by force, echoed beam's statement in his own statement today
by golly, hans christian andersen couldn't have done any better,'' in making up a story, he said. the government's tale, he said, consists of a ``little truth here, a little truth there, and a whole lot of imagination in between.''
he said he received about $100,000 from the founder of a white supremacist extremist group named the order, but returned more than $90,000 after ``i began to sniff that these weren't tax fighters at all.''
he said he has long opposed some federal tax laws and procedures and had contact with some white supremacists only because they were introduced to him as tax protestors
conspiracy to overthrow the government has a maximum penalty of 20 years in prison
miller and four others are charged with conspiring to murder a judge and an fbi agent who played a part in the prosecution of people who harbored a man wanted in north dakota for the slayings of two u.s. marshals. the maximum penalty for that charge is life imprisonment
one man, richard wayne snell, is charged with in both incidents
the government and five of the defendants made their opening statements wednesday, the second day of a trial expected to last three months
assistant u.s. attorney steve snyder said in his statement that ellison talked about the poisoning scheme in 1983 at an aryan nations convocation in hayden lake, idaho, with richard g. butler and robert miles, snyder said
butler, 69, is the leader of the church of jesus christ christian (aryan nations), while miles, 63, is a former ku klux klan official convicted in 1973 in the bombing of empty school buses in pontiac, mich
at the time, ellison had more than 200 pounds of sodium cyanide in his possession, snyder said
at that same conclave, supremacist leaders discussed the idea of abolishing the u.s. government and setting up an aryan state, snyder said
he said ellison ``sent a paper around to be signed,'' and when it came back signed by the leaders, ellison said, ``all of us today entered into a conspiracy against the government of the united states.''
the meeting ended with the nazi stiff-arm hail victory salute,'' snyder said
butler, miles and beam disputed this account. butler said ellison is trying to shorten his prison stay ``by saying anything the government wants him to say.''
snyder said the supremacists viewed white people as the people of god, jews as ``the spawn of satan,'' ``blacks were called mud-people'' and were regarded as sub-human, and the government was called zog, for zionist occupation government
a house committee on thursday approved a resolution accusing north korea of ``murderous acts of state-sponsored terrorism'' for the bombing last year of a south korean jetliner that killed 115 people aboard
the foreign affairs committee, which passed the resolution without dissent, also urged other nations to impose a trade embargo on north korea. the resolution was sent to the full house with strong statements of bipartisan support
rep. robert lagomarsino, r-calif., said the destruction of korean air lines flight 858 last november ``was probably the clearest example we have seen of state-sponsored terrorism.''
rep. stephen solarz, d-n.y., called the bombing a monstrous act that raises doubt about the sanity of the heavily-armed north korean regime bordering u.s.-allied south korea
the resolution said that congress ``categorically rejects the december 1987 proposal to enter into a dialogue with the parliament of north korea, since its members represent a government that engages in murderous acts of state-supported terrorism.''
prior to the bombing, soviet diplomats had discussed a proposal for talks between u.s. and north korean lawmakers. the discussions were later proposed in formal letters relayed by the soviet embassy to u.s. officials in december, according to a congressional staffer, who requested anonymity
solarz said the united states has ``fairly persuasive'' independent evidence of north korean responsibility for the time-bombing. in addition, kim hyun-hee, surviving member of the two accused north korean agents, confessed to south korean investigators
the two left flight 868 at baghdad, its last stop before the bombing over the andaman sea, and took cyanide pills when later arrested in bahrain
the resolution expressed support for steps taken by the reagan administration after the bombing, including the addition of north korea to its list of countries supporting international terrorism
the resolution asked for sanctions and other measures against north korea from ``other countries, particularly with close relations with north korea ...'' this was considered a reference to the soviet union and china, north korea's closest neighbors. royalties</head>
former prime minister james callaghan is playing fairy godfather to a children's hospital in london by trying to change the law so it can keep earning royalties from the classic tale, ``peter pan.''
author j.m. barrie bequeathed royalties from the book, stage and film performances about the boy who wouldn't grow up to the world-renowned great ormond street hospital for sick children
but the copyright expired dec. 31 after the maximum 50 years permitted by law, just as the 146-year-old hospital launched a drive to raise $52 million for renovations
callaghan, the former labor party leader who was prime minister from 1976-79, said thursday he believes an exception should be made, and he will seek to change the law to make barrie's bequest permanent
he said the initiative actually came from his wife, audrey, chairwoman of the special trustees who administer funds bequeathed to the hospital
callaghan _ now lord callaghan after being made a life peer by queen elizabeth ii last year _ said the hospital received a ``substantial'' amount of money from ``peter pan'' royalties
he couldn't say how much because barrie stipulated in his will that the sum should never be revealed. british media have speculated it was as much as much as $875,000 a year
callaghan said he hopes to introduce an amendment to the copyright, designs and patents act next month that would enable the hospital to receive royalties forever
it (the amendment) is in train,'' he said. ``proposals have been put forward. everybody has been very helpful.''
the times of london reported thursday that callaghan's proposal has the support of prime minister margaret thatcher's government. callagahn was defeated by mrs. thatcher's conservatives in 1979
lady callaghan said there is a precendent for a perpetual copyright. parliament granted one to oxford university for the earl of clarendon's 1702 book ``history of the rebellion'' about britain's rebellion and civil wars
clarendon's royalties were once very profitable to the university. in his honor, the oxford university press named the building it moved to in 1829 the clarendon press
barrie's story about a boy who flew with tinkerbell through never-never land and triumphed over captain hook grew out of tales he spun for five orphaned boys he took under his wing
the play was first performed in 1904, followed by a story, ``peter pan in kensington gardens,'' in 1906 and the play in book form in 1911. the play is att$acting full houses at the cambridge theater in london's west end
the royalties helped great ormond street hospital develop a world-class reputation. prince charles had his appendix removed there as a child. flight</head>
one year after jumping bail and failing to appear in court for a trial on sexual-assault charges, a former high school honor student remains on the lam, pursued by a bounty hunter, the fbi and police
alex a. kelly, now 20, of darien, has been missing since he and his parents parted at denver's stapleton international airport on feb. 15, 1987. he had been working in leadville, colo., and he and his parents had booked separate flights to newark, n.j., authorities said
four days later, he failed to appear in court in stamford for the start of his trial on charges that he raped two teen-age girls in 1986
we've had a lot of rumors, but as far as i know, the trail is cold,'' assistant state's attorney bruce p. hudock said. ``i personally have at least another 10 years on this job, so i'm patient.''
kelly's parents, joseph t. and melanie l. kelly, declined to discuss their son's case or his disappearance
they may lose their $450,000 home in this well-to-do suburb of new york city because they put it up as security for kelly's $200,000 bond, raised to $450,000 when he failed to appear. prosecutors have filed a foreclosure motion that is pending
bounty hunter philip b. dole of new york entered the case last year after gov. william a. o'neill authorized a $20,000 reward
dole, who usually works for bail bondsmen, said recently that he has uncovered some leads by talking to kelly's friends and checking places where he was last seen. he declined to describe the leads, but he said he expects kelly to be arrested in less than a year
he's going to make a mistake,'' dole said. ``people who stay out that long feel no one is looking for them.''
kelly is charged with three counts of first-degree sexual assault, two counts of kidnapping and two counts of threatening in connection with the attacks on feb. 10 and 14, 1986
kelly was arrested the day of the second assault, only days after his darien high school wrestling coach wrote an article in the weekly darien news-review describing in glowing terms how the teen-ager had overcome a troubled past
kelly had been charged with nine burglaries in 1983 and 1984, and was sentenced to a four-month drug treatment program
coach jeffrey bouvier wrote that kelly had returned to school in the spring of 1985 after completing the drug program, was earning as and had applied to colleges in colorado
he is open about his `problem' and speaks candidly to groups of freshmen about drugs and their potential to ruin a life,'' bouvier wrote
kelly's attorney, michael sherman of stamford, said he thinks his client jumped bail because he feared he would not receive a fair trial after a judge decided to try the two assault cases together
it's very easy for the state's attorney to be very macho about it, but you're still looking at a 19-year-old kid (at the time) who is afraid and who is facing 20 years in prison,'' sherman said. he was referring to a sentence proposed by prosecutors under a plea bargain agreement
kelly's parents have said they don't know where he is, but police are suspicious
the assault victims were initially apprehensive about the trial, hudock said, but kelly's disappearance has left them angry
i would say their feelings go to the area of justice not having been served,'' he said. ``their interest seems to have increased in the past year.''
hate crimes directed primarily at blacks and jews rose to an eight-year record in the los angeles area during 1987, according to a study that linked the increase to white power groups such as young neo-nazi ``skinheads.''
a study released wednesday by the county commission on human relations cited ``entrenched racial and religious bigotry among a small segment'' of the los angeles county population as a reason for the increase
the study recorded 184 incidents of racially or religiously motivated vandalism and violence last year, the highest number since the commission began keeping statistics in 1980
they included 79 incidents of racially motivated crimes, compared to 58 in 1986. anti-religious crimes totaled 115, up from 95 incidents in 1986
more than half of the racially motivated crimes were aimed at blacks and 85 percent of all anti-religious crimes were directed toward jews, the study found
our numbers for 1987 are the highest we've ever had, and we don't think it's a result of improved reporting. it's real,'' said eugene mornell, the commission's executive director
we also think there is an under-count of incidents, particularly for latinos and asians,'' he said
the report acknowledged increases in open hate-group activity by the ku klux klan and nazi party members and sympathizers, including the rise of ``skinheads,'' youths who usually shave their heads as a symbol of their white supremacy beliefs
graffiti was the most common harassment but the commission documented cross burnings, arson, gunshots and other forms of violence and vandalism
the study's findings were similar to a survey by the anti-defamation league of b'nai b'rith which found anti-semitic violence is on the rise in southern california, and attributed the rise in part to the prevalance of ``skinheads.''
the annual report for the first time logged 52 cases of harassment against gays and lesbians, out of 107 cases submitted to the commission in 1987 by the gay and lesbian community services center. with comments by nasa administrator; picks up 7th graf pvs, nasa's budget</note>
president reagan's 1989 budget would raise spending on general science by 20 percent, to $13.1 billion, and provide for machines to probe the outer space above earth and the inner space of particles on earth
the budget boosts spending for science and research programs by $2.2 billion, and includes start-up funds for the superconducting super collider in the department of energy and the space station in the national aeronautics and space administration
the spending plan also provides money to the national science foundation to establish 10 to 15 new basic science research centers over the next five years
about $400 million in the budget would go to the energy department for the start of construction on history's largest pure science machine, the superconducting super collider. this device, which would include an underground tunnel more than 50 miles long, would be the world's most powerful proton collider. its goal is fundamental research into the basic nature of particles smaller than the atom
a number of states are competing for the super collider, but the final decision on the site has not been made
energy's science budget authority for 1989 would total $1.2 billion, a 49 percent increase over the 1988 level. most of the increase would go to the collider
at a briefing on the nasa budget, space agency administrator james fletcher said the president's budget follows a policy that ``clearly commits the united states to space leadership as a fundamental objective'' and establishes for the first time a long-range goal of putting astronauts on other planets
nasa's budget outlay would increase by nearly 30 percent, from $8.4 billion in 1988 to $10.1 billion in 1989
almost $1 billion of the outlay would go for start-up construction of the space station, a permanent orbital base that nasa plans to have in operation in the mid-1990s. space agency officials had hoped for another $800 million, but the project has been resisted by some in congress
the space budget also includes start-up funds for the pathfinder project, a research program designed to develop the basic technologies needed to send astronauts to mars sometime in the next century
nasa also would receive more than $1 billion additional in its space flight budget in 1989. this will cover the additional costs of space shuttle missions. the agency hopes to complete recovery from the 1986 challenger accident with the resumption of shuttle flights in august and a gradual increase in mission rate in 1989. the funding also covers the cost of building a new shuttle spacecraft, expected to be completed now in 1991
the national science foundation outlay would increase from $1.67 billion in 1988 to $1.81 billion in 1989
reagan called for a $300 million increase in basic research funded by the foundation. the budget proposes to establish 10 to 15 basic science research centers over the next five years. these centers would focus on research among a number of scientific disciplines and encourage industry participation, the administration said
a river boat capsized thursday along the ganges delta southeast of calcutta, and 150 people were missing, a news agency reported
nine people were known dead in the disaster, and a search was under way for survivors, the united news of india reported
the vessel had been carrying about 200 people when it overturned in the matla river, one of the many tributaries of the ganges that flow through west bengal state, uni said
nine bodies have been recovered
the vessel was headed from jharkhali to port canning when it capsized, uni said. the area is about 25 miles southeast of calcutta. surrounded by.</note>
anthony mcleod kennedy was sworn in as the nation's 104th supreme court justice today, bringing a crucial tie-breaking vote to a court hampered by a vacancy the past eight months
with a hand on his family bible, kennedy promised during a brief ceremony to ``do equal right to the poor and to the rich.'' he then was seated at the high court bench, at the place traditionally reserved for the junior justice
president reagan, who appointed kennedy, did not attend the courtroom ceremony but attorney general edwin meese iii presented kennedy's commission of office to the justices
none of the three former court members still living attended the ceremony. justice lewis f. powell, who kennedy succeeds, and chief justice warren e. burger were in florida. former justice arthur goldberg, whose wife died saturday, also did not attend
in comments before the ceremony, kennedy, 51, said he had a running start in his new job
i've been working. i'm ready for monday,'' when the court ends its current recess, kennedy said while posing for cameras outside the court building prior to his swearing-in
we're just delighted to be in washington. the welcome has been very gracious,'' kennedy said
surrounded by his wife, mary, three children and more than 30 other relatives, kennedy said he plans to live in an apartment in the nation's capital while he and his wife look for a permanent home
it's not quite big enough for the whole family,'' he joked before walking off with his relatives
the former federal appellate judge from sacramento, calif., had two swearing-in ceremonies today: one in the supreme court's ornate courtroom and the other at the white house
president reagan's third choice for the job, kennedy was confirmed by a 97-0 vote of the senate 15 days ago _ a tranquil conclusion to the political storm sparked by justice lewis f. powell's retirement last june 26
the senate rejected the president's first choice, robert h. bork. a second nominee, douglas h. ginsburg, withdrew after admitting he had smoked marijuana while a law professor
kennedy, although a conservative for his 12 years on the federal bench, is considered more of a moderate than either bork or ginsburg
little is known about kennedy's specific views on abortion regulation, affirmative action, church-state relations or the other politically sensitive issues on which the high court is closely divided
he is the third reagan appointee to join the court, following justices sandra day o'connor and antonin scalia
reagan also elevated william h. rehnquist to the chief justice's post when warren e. burger retired in 1986
a busy schedule awaits kennedy. the court, returning from a four-week recess, convenes in an all-day conference behind closed doors friday and returns to the bench monday to begin three days of oral argument sessions
one of the arguments focuses on whether private clubs may exclude women and racial minorities as members
kennedy was criticized during his senate confirmation hearings for his past membership in such exclusive clubs
the absence of a ninth justice for more than half the court's 1987-88 term has resulted in some significant deadlocks
for example, the court split 4-4 in december when deciding whether a state may require some teen-agers seeking abortions to wait 24 hours after telling their parents or a judge about their decision
the justices also split 4-4 last month over the validity of an affirmative action program designed to promote more blacks and hispanics in the new york city police department
such votes automatically uphold the lower court's ruling but set no national precedent
the addition of kennedy reduces the court's average age from 68 to 66, and marks the first time in history the court has included three catholics. like kennedy, justices scalia and william j. brennan are catholic
the court also includes three stanford university graduates and four harvard university law school grads
kennedy, who received his undergraduate degree from stanford and his law degree from harvard, joins fellow stanford grads rehnquist and o'connor. the three other justices who have harvard law degrees are brennan, scalia and harry a. blackmun
athens airport was shut down thursday in a 24-hour strike by air traffic controllers and other workers seeking bonuses for dangerous or stress-filled jobs
a labor union spokesman said more than 70,000 workers had joined the walkout, including airport, railroad, and harbour workers and state hospital and veterinary employees
more than 40 international and domestic flights had been canceled and that greek airspace would be closed ``for the day,'' an airport spokesman said
olympic airways, the greek state carrier, was scheduling extra flights for friday and that international flights would resume ``early in the morning,'' he said
we want extra money for stressful and dangerous jobs to be built into our pay scales, and also the right to get an earlier pension,'' said an airport union spokesman, who requested anonymity in accordance with greek practice
state hospital doctors also staged a separate walkout to press their demands for a 30 percent salary increase. most state-employed doctors currently earn less than $1,000 monthly. a union spokesman said hospitals would accept only emergency cases
the nation's industrial operating rate was unchanged in january at 82.2 percent of capacity as cutbacks in the production of steel and autos offset gains in other areas, the government reported thursday
the january operating rate remained at the highest level in almost eight years, but it was the first month since september that the operating rate had failed to move up
many private economists believe the economy, which moved ahead at a robust pace during the second half of 1987, has entered a signficant slowdown brought on by high backlogs of unsold products which will cause cutbacks in production
while some believe the slowdown will be so severe that the country will enter a recession, most analysts are forecasting weak growth but no recession in the first half of 1988 followed by rising economic activity for the rest of the year
david wyss, an economist for data resources inc., said he expected the overall economy, as measured by the gross national product to rise a miniscule 1.4 percent this year, down sharply from the 3.8 percent growth recorded in 1987 with the weakness coming from production cutbacks brought on by sluggish consumer demand
by contrast, the reagan administration, in releasing its 1989 budget thursday, forecast economic growth of 2.4 percent for this year
in january, the operating rate in the auto industry dropped by 1.2 percentage points to 76.7 percent of capacity. it was the third consecutive monthly decline after auto plants hit an operating rate of 82 percent in october. the report blamed ``excessive inventories'' on dealers' lots for the production cutbacks
steel and other makers of primary metals, a sector closely tied to the auto industry, also saw a drop in operating rates, which fell to 89.6 percent of capacity last month, down from 91.2 percent in december
analysts said they looked for this trend to continue and spread to other industries as retailers, caught with high inventories, slash orders
the january operating rate of 82.2 percent was a full 3 percentage points above the operating level 12 months ago, reflecting the boom the manufacturing sector has enjoyed from rising export sales
the administration is counting on the strength from record-high export levels to offset weakness in the consumer sector and keep the economy out of a recession this year
for all of manufacturing, the operating rate was unchanged at 82.4 percent of capacity in january. manufacturers of durable goods, items expected to last at least three years, operated at 79.9 percent of capacity, a small decline from december, while manufacturers of non-durable goods operated at 86.1 percent of capacity
the industry with the highest operating rate is paper, where plants are operating at 96.5 percent of capacity, followed close behind by textiles, with an operating rate of 94.1 percent of capacity
normally, when operating rates get above 85 percent, economists begin to worry about bottlenecks and rising prices. but analysts said that the expected slowdown in growth should help to constrain prices this year
if i weren't expecting a slowdown, i would be more worried about inflation,'' wyss said
the mining industry, which has been hardhit by declines in oil prices, had a 0.3 percentage point drop in the operating rate to 80.2 percent of capacity in january
this was offset, however, by a 0.9 percentage point increase in the operating rate at utility companies, which rose to 81.6 percent in january. the big gain was attributed to unusually severe winter weather which boosted heating demands
by jim drinkard=
republicans view an emerging democratic package of purely humanitarian aid for nicaragua's contra rebels as ``pretty soft stuff,'' and will seek to bring their own aid package up for a vote next week, the house gop leader said thursday
i would certainly hope that whatever ... the speaker brings up, that we'd be given an opportunity as a minority party to offer a substitute for whatever they propose,'' rep. robert michel, r-ill., told reporters
he said ``the preliminary indications are such that it's going to be pretty soft stuff that won't get the job done. and if it's just that, of course we would want to make one more attempt at doing something more significant.''
president reagan lost his bid in a house vote feb. 4 for a $36.2 million aid package that included some $3.6 million for weapons and ammunition, along with additional millions for military logistical support
democrats prevailed on that vote, 219-211, after the party's leadership promised wavering members that there would be a later opportunity to approve a package of contra aid that included only food, clothing, medicine and shelter
a group of interested democrats, together with one or two republicans who voted against the president's proposal, have been meeting daily for the past week to draft such an alternative
house speaker jim wright, d-texas, said wednesday that the package would continue aid at current rates _ about $1.8 million a month for the aid itself, and an undetermined additional amount for transportation of the goods _ but that many other difficult issues remained unresolved
wright has invited white house officials and the republican leadership to participate, but they have elected to stay aloof from the package
michel alluded to the difficulties democrats were having in drawing up an aid package that could win majority support, and noted that the issue of how the goods are to be transported remains unresolved. the cia is using airdrops to get materiel to the rebels, but that authority expires feb. 29
many democrats want delivery authority shifted to some neutral international body such as the red cross or organization of american states, but such groups would be unlikely to agree to make deliveries so long as hostilities continue
cease-fire talks between the rebels and the leftist sandinista government of nicaragua are continuing in costa rica
my feeling is, it has to be done, continue to be done, through the agency, it's the only meaningful way of getting it there,'' michel said, referring to the cia
there are some undelivered military supplies from the original appropriation (which ended last year) that have not yet been delivered,'' he said. ``i would like to see that there still be that capability for the delivery of the balance of that material.'' california.</note>
an anencephalic baby kept on life-support systems to preserve his organs for transplant died this morning in california, and a 3-week-old boy too weak to undergo a second heart transplant died in a pittsburgh hospital
the anencephalic baby has been declared dead,'' said dick schaefer, spokesman for loma linda university medical center in loma linda, calif
he refused to immediately say whether the boy's organs were in suitable condition for transplants
the unidentified boy, who was born with most of his brain missing, had been on a respirator at the hospital 60 miles east of los angeles, said spokeswoman anita rockwell. he was born tuesday in anaheim, she said
most babies born with anencephaly die within days. their healthy organs can be transplanted if organ damage is prevented by maintaining the infants on life-support
no cases of anencephalics being kept on life-support have been announced in the united states, although leonard bailey, chief of loma linda's heart transplant program, last year suggested there have been such infants
at children's hospital of pittsburgh, johnathan stowe died wednesday afternoon, still attached to the heart-lungs bypass machine on which doctors had placed him after surgery, said lynn mcmahon, hospital spokeswoman
his parents, david and tabitha stowe of beaver falls, were with him. johnathan received a new heart monday. the left side of his own heart was underdeveloped at his birth jan. 25
doctors said the cause of death was failure of the donor heart. the organ had come from an infant close in age and size to johnathan, who was 7.6 pounds at birth, ms. mcmahon said
it really is perplexing for the surgeons,'' she said. ``the match with the donor organ was very good. the surgery itself ... proceeded very well. but for some unknown reason, immediately after surgery, the heart began to weaken.''
johnathan was placed on the bypass machine following the transplant in hopes the donor organ could rest and gain strength, ms. mcmahon said. doctors on monday gave him a 10 percent chance to survive, and he developed complications with his lungs and kidneys the next day
johnathan never gained consciousness following the transplant, ms. mcmahon said. a second transplant was not considered because ``doctors felt his system couldn't withstand another surgery,'' she said
in california, loma linda had maintained the infant on life-support under guidelines developed last year after a woman pregnant with an anencephalic baby waged a nationwide campaign to find a hospital that would consent to keep her child on life-support until the organs could be donated. but that baby was stillborn
one of the hospital's 13 heart transplant patients under age 4 received the heart of an anencephalic baby, but the donor child was in canada
an infant who received a heart transplant at loma linda on sunday remained in serious but stable condition. the boy was born with a fatal heart defect. state department comment on reagan's statement. pick up 5th pvs, `in louisville...'</note>
a caller today claimed the islamic revolutionary brigades kidnapped a u.s. marine officer and accused the officer of being a cia agent
the arabic-speaking man, in a telephone call to a western news agency, said the previously unknown group took marine lt. col. william r. higgins out of beirut ``after he was brought out from the south.''
u.n. officials and shiite moslem militiamen staged a massive search for higgins throughout south lebanon and virtually sealed off the area around tyre, 50 miles south of beirut
in washington, president reagan said he wants to rescue higgins, but he offered no details. ``we're doing everything we can,'' he said at a photo session. ``we're trying to find out as much as we can. we're trying to get him located, and certainly we want to rescue him.''
but later, state department spokesman charles e. redman said, ``i think the president is making a reference there to all of our efforts to stay in touch with parties in the region, with the united nations, to explore every possibility, to see if colonel higgins can be safely returned.''
in louisville, ky., higgins' father, william f. higgins, 72, died of heart failure, said donna hazle, spokeswoman for humana hospital audubon
gunmen on wednesday blocked the coastal highway near tyre and grabbed higgins as he returned from a meeting with officials of justice minister nabih berri's shiite amal militia. abdel majid saleh, an amal political leader, said he and higgins had discussed efforts to free foreign hostages in lebanon, in addition to other topics at the tyre meeting
higgins was serving as chief of an observer group attached to the u.n. peacekeeping force in lebanon
state department spokesman charles e. redman said the united states would continue supplying soldiers for the observer group but declined to say if any new instructions would be sent to the americans
the caller said: ``william higgins has joined the hostages. he will only come out after he is tried on grounds that he is one of the directors of the cia in south lebanon. higgins is now out of beirut after he was brought out from the south.''
the caller said a written statement and a photograph of the captive will be issued soon. then he hung up
there was no way to authenticate the claim immediately
the pro-iranian groups islamic jihad, islamic jihad for the liberation of palestine, revolutionary justice and holy warriors have claimed responsibility for kidnapping 23 of the other 24 foreign hostages in lebanon. no one has claimed responsibility for the disappearance of anglican church envoy terry waite
u.n. helicopters took off at dawn to join the search for higgins but were grounded early today by heavy rain. troops of the u.n. interim force in lebanon, known as unifil, and the amal militia, the dominant force in the region, searched together through the night
the militia teamed up with unifil to search for higgins, a native of danville, ky., soon after he was kidnapped
we hope the kidnappers will have no chance of slipping out with their captive. that's why all exits have been blocked,'' an amal spokesman said, speaking on condition of anonymity
plainclothes militia security men in cars blocked roads along the litani river from the mediterranean coast 25 miles inland to the slopes of mount hermon
uniformed militiamen armed with submachine guns and rocket-propelled grenade launchers patrolled a 12{-mile stretch of the coast from the qassmieh bridge north of tyre to the scene of the abduction
our men are searching villages in a 300-square-mile area north, east and south of tyre,'' said daoud daoud, amal's military commander in south lebanon. ``u.n. troops are blocking the southern exits.''
daoud met today with unifil commanders at the lebanese army's tyre barracks to coordinate the search. he told the associated press as he went into the meeting, ``we're capable of confronting the people who've carried out the abduction if need be. but i hope a quick, happy ending will be accomplished.''
security sources said french specialists were dispatched to tyre from unifil headquarters in naqoura to interrogate an unidentified lebanese bus driver who claimed he witnessed the abduction
the french have managed to draw a face sketch of the gunman the eyewitness says he saw pointing a pistol at higgins' head as he forced him into the kidnappers' car,'' said one source, speaking on condition of anonymity
higgins has commanded the 76-member observer group, lebanon, since jan. 8. the group, made up of officers from 16 countries, is attached to the 5,800-man unifil, deployed in south lebanon since 1978 to police the border with israel
unifil operates in predominantly shiite areas whose population frequently have been caught in cross fire between israeli troops on one hand and palestinian guerrillas and iranian-backed shiite extremists on the other
higgins was the third u.n. official to be kidnapped in south lebanon in two weeks and the second american military officer ever abducted in lebanon
he became the 25th foreigner and ninth american held hostage there. the foreign hostage held longest in lebanon is terry a. anderson, chief middle east correspondent for the associated press. he was abducted march 16, 1985
the first u.s. military officer kidnapped in lebanon was col. robert morgan, abducted by palestinian guerrillas in 1974. he was freed the same year
the other foreign hostages include four frenchmen, three britons, two west germans, an italian, an irishman, an indian, a swede, a norwegian and two unidentified men
two liberal democrats are locked in a close primary battle for a chance to succeed sen. john c. stennis, whose retirement has given mississippi an open senate seat for only the second time in 40 years
stennis, 86 and a 41-year veteran of the senate, announced oct. 19 that he would not seek re-election
the march 8 primary, which coincides with the state's super tuesday presidential primary _ pits rep. wayne dowdy, a congressman since 1981, against secretary of state dick molpus. a third candidate, biloxi pipefitter gilbert fountain, also is on the ballot but is trailing far behind
no one is challenging rep. trent lott, the house minority whip, for the republican nomination
the molpus-dowdy battle, rated a toss-up in the most recent polls, has been waged mostly in the media. but in recent weeks, the two contenders have been criss-crossing the state, making brief campaign stops in a host of towns
dowdy, 44, who gained his 4th congressional district seat in a 1981 special election, has been stressing his experience in washington. molpus, 38, has been touting his record as director of federal-state programs under former gov. william winter and as secretary of state since 1984
dowdy, also a former mayor of mccomb in southern mississippi, was the first candidate to enter tha race after stennis said he was retiring
it was a tough decision to give up my house seat,'' said dowdy, adding he felt he could have a greater impact for his constituents in the senate
molpus, a native of central mississippi, said he entered government in the first place to make ``mississippi a better place to live'' and believes he ``can do that most effectively in the united states senate.''
a poll conducted feb. 12-13 for a jackson radio station showed dowdy with the backing of 40.5 percent of the democrats questioned, compared to 35.6 percent for molpus. fountain, 47, who ran for governor last year and finished seventh in the eight-man field, had 2.5 percent, and 22 percent were undecided. the poll of 630 democrats had a 4 percent margin of error
another poll two weeks earlier for several state newspapers had molpus leading 39 percent to 34 percent, with 2 percent for fountain and 26 percent undecided. it surveyed 526 voters and a had 3.5 percent margin of error
because dowdy and molpus differ little in their political philosophies, some groups have found it difficult choosing whom to endorse
the mississippi afl-cio gave dowdy its backing, but said if molpus wins the democratic nomination, its endorsement will automatically go to him
the politically active mississippi association of educators endorsed both candidates and said it would support the primary winner
lott, 46, who has served eight terms in the house, says he'll stress his own washington experience when his campaign gets under way in earnest after the primary
my role as whip in the house has prepared me well, and certainly after 16 years in the house of representatives i know my way around the halls of washington,'' the pascagoula resident said
the only other wide open fight for a u.s. senate seat in the last four decades came in 1978 when sen. thad cochran, r-miss., won a three-way fight for the seat that had been held since 1941 by the late sen. james o. eastland, a democrat and delta planter
cochran became the state's first gop senator in a century by picking up 45 percent of the vote in a battle that included democrat maurice dantin and black independent charles evers. he won re-election in 1984 with 58 percent
stennis, the nation's oldest and most senior senator, won his seat in a special election in 1947, taking the place of longtime state powerbroker theo g. bilbo
stennis was a long-time southern power broker in the senate, particularly on military matters and funding. first as chairman of armed services and then of appropriations, he helped funnel millions in military projects and bases into the state
in addition, stennis was a major proponent of the often-criticized tennesse-tombigbee waterway which runs through the northeast part of the state. some critics claimed the $2 billion, 234-mile project, completed in 1985, was a classic example of federal pork barrel politics
stennis never faced a serious challenger until haley barbour left a political post in the white house to make the 1982 race. but stennis, then 81, raised a $1 million and ran a slick media campaign. he wound up carrying all but two of the state's 82 counties and beat barbour by a 64-to-36 percent margin. pregnant women</head>
physicians concerned for the unborn should not turn to the courts to force pregnant women to undergo caesarean sections, drug abuse treatment or other procedures, two medical researchers argue
such use of the legal system is unethical and could open the door to court interference in such personal decisions as whether a pregnant woman continues to work, the researchers said in an essay in friday's journal of the american medical association
judicial involvement inevitably invades a woman's privacy, entails the disclosure of confidential medical and personal information, and thrusts the woman into the adversarial system,'' wrote dr. nancy milliken of the university of california at san francisco and lawrence j. nelson of the university of california at berkeley
once in that system, the woman ``must defend her choices on a highly personal matter at a time when she is psychologically and physically ill-disposed to do so,'' they said
george j. annas, a professor of health law at boston university school of medicine, said in a telephone interview wednesday that ``the mainstream now is to agree'' with the essay, though some specialists in infant care still favor court intervention
however, milliken said she and nelson wrote the essay out of concern over a survey last year indicating a significant number of gynecology department heads believed court intervention was acceptable to force pregnant women to accept treatment on behalf of fetuses
more harm than good results from making adversaries out of mother and fetus, said the essay, which supports a stand adopted in august by the american college of obstetricians and gynecologists
over the long-term, not only would court interventions undermine the doctor-patient relationship, but they would necessitate an impossible task _ defining reliable standards for stepping in, the essay said
forcing women to undergo medical treatment against their wills is too weighty a matter to be left to the vagaries of personal interpretation by physicians and judges,'' said the essay
the issue comes up most often in court-ordered caesarean sections and forced transfusions to the fetus, milliken said in a telephone interview wednesday
the extension would be to seek out women for other behaviors,'' she said. ``that could be anything from smoking to continuing to work ... sexual activity, if contra-indicated, or of not following a recommended medical regimen.''
milliken and nelson said: ``we recognize that the behavior of women who are abusers of alcohol or drugs poses significant potential for fetal harm
however, there are solid reasons to doubt that a system of legal punishment or intervention would decrease the incidence of this behavior, as it is usually an addiction over which these women have little control.'' news division president.</note>
douglas edwards, a contemporary of edward r. murrow and the original anchor of cbs' first network television newscast, is retiring as of april 1, cbs announced today
edwards said he was ``sad, but a little exhilarated'' by the prospect of retirement after 46 years with cbs
edwards joined cbs radio in 1942. when frank stanton, then president of cbs, launched the first nightly television newscast, ``cbs-tv news,'' in 1948, he tapped edwards to anchor it
edwards was succeeded as anchor in 1962 by walter cronkite
cbs said in a statement that edwards, 70, and his wife, may, would move to florida where edwards will continue lecturing on broadcast journalism and begin work on an autobiography
federal felons can take some heart from president reagan's 1989 budget proposal. presidential pardons and commutations are projected to rise dramatically this year and next
in 1987, there were only 23 pardons and no commutations of sentence. but the budget anticipates 50 pardons and five commutations in this fiscal year, which began last oct. 1, and an additional 50 pardons and five more commutations in the 12 months beginning next oct. 1
pardon attorney david c. stephenson was not immediately available for comment on the reasons increases are anticipated
many political figures and legal observers have suggested reagan may pardon some of his former white house aides who participated in the iran-contra affair and are expected to be indicted this year by independent counsel lawrence walsh. reagan has refused to discuss such pardons and his aides have said such discussions are premature
by comparison, there were 55 pardons in 1986 and no commutations. denials and requests for pardons or commutations not acted upon remained steady at 290 in both 1986 and 1987. there was no immediate explanation for the drop in pardons in 1987
former delaware gov. pete du pont, on the heels of disappointing finishes in iowa and new hampshire, abandoned his gop presidential bid today, saying ``today our campaign lowers its flag, but our crusade continues to march.''
du pont becomes the second republican to quit the race, following the withdrawal of former secretary of state alexander haig last friday
you have given me the opportunity of a lifetime,'' said du pont
du pont had hoped to make himself the conservative alternative to gop front-runners george bush and bob dole, but he finished far down in the iowa caucuses and the new hampshire primary
du pont took note of his controversial stands on issues from mandatory drug testing for high school students to elimination of farm subsidies and said, ``we have moved those challenges forward to the center of the debate; they are urgent, they are real, they will not disappear.''
neither will our efforts to address them. all of us can pause to catch our breath, none of us should think it time to end our quest,'' he told about a hundred supporters in his hometown
du pont, who officially began his campaign 17 months ago, thanked his supporters
in america we do not promise that everyone wins, only that everyone has the opportunity to try. you have given me the opportunity,'' he said
you listened, considered and chose. i could not have asked for more.''
the former two-term governor finished fourth in a field of five in tuesday's new hampshire primary, barely edging former television evangelist pat robertson
du pont won 10 percent of the gop vote in new hampshire, netting him his first and only two delegates to the republican national convention
he was never considered a front-runner, instead battling it out with second-tier candidates rep. jack kemp and robertson
du pont's conservative credentials were polished by his endorsement from union leader newspaper of manchester, n.h
du pont declared his candidacy sept. 16, 1986 _ 17 months before the new hampshire primary _ making him officially the first republican in the field
his announcement came in a wilmington hotel that bears the family name, one traced back through at least eight generations
during the announcement, the 53-year-old former congressman, state legislator and great-great grandson of the founder of the du pont co. admitted he was not a public figure despite his famous name
but, he said, ``i'm in a wonderful position. i'm unknown. i'm underrated, and there's nowhere to go but up.''
that same day, du pont took off for manchester, n.h. in an interview later that week with the wilmington news-journal, du pont said if he did not do well in iowa and new hampshire, he would pull out of the race
being first to announce, he drew national attention, particularly for his provocative stands on several issues, including mandatory drug testing for all high school students, creation of a private alternative to social security modeled after ira accounts, and the replacement of welfare with a mandatory jobs program
now his political future is unknown
he's a harvard law school graduate and an attorney with the wilmington firm of richards, layton and finger, rated among the state's most prestigious firms handling corporate law cases
he cannot run for governor again, having already served the maximum two terms. he has said one does not run for vice president
babies whose parents receive a form of welfare in this southern maine community won't be ``pampered'' anymore
selectmen have decided that residents who receive general assistance, a local form of welfare, cannot use the money to purchase disposable diapers
cloth diapers will be less expensive for the taxpayers,'' chairwoman jean harris said
harris said disposable diapers can cost more than $10 a box, and some mothers buy up to four boxes each week
selectman w. robert donovan was the lone dissenter in tuesday's 3-1 vote on the issue. ``i'd just like to say, it's not the 1950s,'' he said
local selectmen are permitted to decide how general assistance recipients can spend the funds. generally, the money is used for housing, food, heating, health care and other life essential items
about 400 residents will take advantage of lisbon's $30,000 general assistance fund this year, town manager john baubier said thursday
fitness instructor dick woit is doing thousands of push-ups a day, all for the sake of a 7-year-old girl who can't see
the little girl from turkey, dilek erdogan, was born with skin covering both eyes. she has been in the united states only about two years and speaks little english. but she and her benefactor, restaurateur matt deletioglu, have won the hearts of woit and other residents on chicago's north side
woit's push-ups are part of a weeklong fund-raiser at the lehmann sports club to raise $100,000 for a series of eye operations for dilek, who was brought to the united states with her mother by deletioglu in 1986
deletioglu, 44, a native of antioch, turkey, saw dilek's picture in a newspaper from his home country and decided to help her
i had never met her,'' he said, ``but one picture was worth a thousand words.''
for the past two years, dilek and her mother, guldane, have been living with deletioglu and his family, as doctors at the university of illinois hospital work to open her eyes. drs. joel sugar and allen putterman are donating their services, but hospital bills have mounted
it keeps going on and on,'' deletioglu said. so he went to his fitness club to seek help in raising money
members of the club, in return, went to other merchants in the community and put together a weeklong series of events that will wrap up with a party and raffle friday night
six weeks ago, putterman began the first of several operations that, doctors say, could allow dilek to see. he took lining from inside her mouth and used it to start forming an eyelid on the girl's right side, sugar said
in about a month, we hope to reopen her lid and then attempt a cornea transplant,'' sugar said in an interview wednesday. ``her condition is called cryptophthalmos, meaning hidden eyes, because her eyes are hidden.''
it's likely dilek will need about six operations on her eyes, sugar said. and she will probably never have normal vision
the likelihood is that her sight will be limited. our best hope is that she'll be able to see enough to get around,'' sugar said. ``if that fails, at least she can be fitted with a cosmetic shield to help her appearance.''
deletioglu is known in the community for opening his restaurant to the homeless on thanksgiving
i've known matt a long time, and i know how charitable he is,'' said bob najman, owner of the lehmann sports club. ``when he told me about her problems, we volunteered to help.''
woit raises money by taking on challengers in push-up contests. the club has pledged to donate $500 to dilek for any challenger who beats him; the challenger who loses must contribute woit's victory margin in dollars
it's just something to help,'' woit said. ``the important thing is what matt is doing for this little girl. he's a giver.''
dozens of cars whizzed past a struggle between a mugger and a woman on the state's busiest highway, but no one stopped to help her, police said
robin keeley, 37, a saleswoman from germantown, md., became stranded on the schuylkill expressway tuesday night when she got a flat tire on her rental car
after waiting 40 minutes inside the car for someone to stop to help her, she was heartened to see a truck driver stop
the man was driving a flatbed truck, which he stopped about 300 yards away, she said. as he walked toward her car, she got out and started talking to him
he seemed very friendly and helpful,'' she said wednesday. ``he said he had helped somebody else with a flat tire further back.''
but ms. keeley said the man then knocked her to the ground and tried to drag her over a concrete barrier. he finally fled with her purse when one motorist slowed and honked
i was screaming and fighting, but nobody stopped,'' ms. keeley said. ``i had one hand out, and i was trying to flag down cars. i was just waving frantically with the one arm and fighting and kicking with the other.''
police estimated 40 to 50 vehicles passed by during the scuffle, which occurred about 8:15 p.m
ten-to-one, a hundred people saw it,'' state trooper stanley wells said. ``you're talking about a very heavily traveled section of the highway.''
two anonymous callers reported the incident about 15 minutes afterward, wells said. by time police arrived, ms. keeley had returned to her car and had driven it about a mile on the flat tire, he said
the man escaped with a black leather pocketbook containing about $50, an airline ticket, credit cards and an appointment book, wells said
ms. keeley suffered a bruised shin but did not require hospital treatment
county health officials are calling for round-the-clock mobile psychiatric teams to help police handle disturbed people who may erupt into violence
the officials, in a report to the city council on wednesday, recommended placing psychiatric nurses and trained caseworkers at parkland memorial hospital to be sent out as needed
many emergency crises could be effectively interrupted if professionals were available seven days a week, 24 hours a day to be dispatched to the scene,'' their report said
law enforcement, mental health and city officials have been looking for ways to improve treatment and avert violence by the mentally ill since officer john glenn chase was killed last month by a disturbed homeless man who grabbed his gun
police chief billy prince told mental health advocates wednesday that the jan. 23 shooting persuaded him to speak out on the need for better treatment
we need to help get these people off the street,'' prince said. ``if the mental health care had been better, he wouldn't have been out there.''
carl d. williams, who died in an exchange of gunfire after he shot and killed chase in downtown dallas, had been diagnosed 10 years earlier as a paranoid schizophrenic
prince said that although he earlier laid blame for the shooting to an anti-police atmosphere created by department critics, he was unaware of williams' history of mental illness at the time
some witnesses said a few spectators urged williams to shoot the officer; others said they did not hear any such thing
county health officials' plan for the psychiatric unit won plaudits from council members, who said costs and coordination would have to be examined before a decision is made
this thing should have been pursued much earlier, before the chase shooting,'' said deputy mayor pro tem diane ragsdale
mental health experts estimate that only a small fraction of the mentally ill may become dangerous. but prince said officers regularly deal with ``more than a few time bombs'' who need treatment
you're talking about not only a social problem but a tremendous waste of police resources'' in dealing with the mentally ill who commit crimes, prince said
a state task force has endorsed a sugar grower's proposal to build an experimental marsh in a cane field to study ways to protect the everglades from agricultural drainage
the lake okeechobee technical advisory council agreed wednesday to encourage the state to develop such plans, but suggested that a larger test site might be needed in the fields of s.n. knight and sons
we think it's a good idea and a good approach,'' said archie grant, council chairman
knight offered to build four miniature swamps for the experiment if the state would extend the grower's lease on 3,700 acres of state-owned land in western palm beach county
the action came as the council completed its 50-page interim report to the legislature on environmental problems created by diverting polluted water away from lake okeechobee
much of the report focuses on problems in the sprawling sugar cane-growing region, the 700,000-acre everglades agricultural area
the agricultural drainage is damaging the everglades marshes in western palm beach and broward counties, and could pose a long-term threat to local water supplies, scientists have said
council member garrett sloan, metro-dade's utilities director, said the outcome of the experiments would be very important for protecting coastal communities' water supply
if we can enjoy success with the research into biological, vegetative methods of nutrient removal, we will all be very happy along the lower east coast,'' sloan said
the council recommended a series of experimental projects to test the ability of artificial marshes to absorb excess nutrients from farm drainage. it also recommended steps be taken to reduce nutrients discharged by lakefront communities' sewage treatment plants, and supported any improved farming practices to reduce agricultural discharges
the panel's recommendations go directly to the state legislature, but will not require much legislative action. most of the efforts can be carried out by the south florida water management district without legislative authorization
the parents of a 5-year-old girl stricken with aids have removed her from kindergarten just as community tensions over the girl's admission appeared to be waning
the girl's parents said they decided to withdraw their child from the roche avenue elementary school to give her more time to mature and give the community and school a chance to better prepare for children with acquired immune deficiency syndrome, said principal robert boulton
the girl's removal won't stop efforts to educate parents and children about the lethal disease, superintendent jacob rankin said
we're obviously going to plow ahead, not only with parent information programs, but also with developing aids policies,'' he said
enrollment of the unidentified girl last week had caused concern by some parents about the safety of their children despite assurances from health officials that aids is not spread by casual contact
health officials have not said how the girl contracted the aids virus
some parents kept their youngsters out of school earlier in`the week as a protest. the number of absences fell from 97 on tuesday to 42 on wednesday as attendance returned to normal
school officials, complying with state law, refused to provide any details about the girl's identity or background. the girl had been examined by the tulare county health department, valley medical center in fresno and her personal physician and was deemed fit to attend public school
the girl attended class feb. 8, but it wasn't mandatory for her to start kindergarten this year. bgng ``appearing at...; delete 12th graf pvs bgng ``another candidate...</note>
democrat bruce babbitt and republican pete du pont dropped out of the presidential race today, both declaring their futile campaigns the opportunity of a lifetime, while most of the surviving contenders marched south for a campaign blitz leading up to super tuesday's primary trophy
meanwhile, republican party regulars in nevada were bracing for pat robertson's ``invisible army'' as they geared up for a non-binding straw poll tonight. and democrats were set for back-to-back debates, starting tonight in texas, the biggest super tuesday state
babbitt and du pont became the first post-new hampshire casualties
today our campaign lowers its flag, but our crusade continues to march,'' du pont said in his hometown of wilmington, del
in america we do not promise that everyone wins, only that everyone has the opportunity to try. you have given me the opportunity. ... you listened, considered and chose. i could not have asked for more,'' said du pont, heir to the chemical-company fortune
both du pont, former governor of delaware, and babbitt, former governor of arizona, said they would not endorse another candidate for now
appearing at a news conference in washington, babbitt said he was reminded of the biblical saying, ``the truth shall set you free.'' in his case, he said, the truth _ his poor showings in iowa and new hampshire _ ``came a lot sooner than i expected.''
still, he said, ``today i am free.''
although i am withdrawing from this race, i am not withdrawing from the cause that brought me to it,'' he said. ``i don't know why we fared no better; i'll leave that for others to ponder. but i am very proud of what we did achieve and i am honored beyond measure by the opportunity i was granted to take part in this campaign.''
babbitt, who formally announced his candidacy on march 10, 1987, failed to set the electorate afire with his call for a national sales tax to combat the federal deficit, but received good press reviews for his candor and wry humor
he said today a friend had told him, ``bruce, you fought a good fight. you were in it right up to the beginning.''
gary hart, who finished last among democrats in new hampshire, headed home to denver, where he said his campaign would continue but not for reasons of ``ego and ambition.''
financially strapped paul simon, who placed second in iowa and third in new hampshire, backed off his declaration that he must win contests next week in south dakota or minnesota to stay in the race for the democratic presidential nomination
he told reporters at a series of fundraisers late wednesday, ``we're now hedging on that because of the reaction we've been getting from around the country.''
du pont entered the republican race on sept. 16, 1986, and, along with rep. jack kemp of new york, sought to present himself as the conservative alternative to front-runners bob dole and george bush
bush, who was campaigning in missouri today, brushed aside complaints from dole that he had misrepresented the kansas senator's positions on taxes, an oil-import fee and arms control in a flood of commercials just before tuesday's new hampshire primary
i'm not going to dwell on it,'' the vice president said. ``i don't want to be drawn into something like that. keep it on a high plane.''
dole, who beat bush in iowa and had hoped to deliver the knockout punch in new hampshire, promised to hit back if attacked again. which he was _ by rep. jack kemp, campaigning in minnesota, who hit dole's record on taxes and social security
the democrats' new hampshire victor, michael dukakis, hotfooted it south and took quick aim at tennessean albert gore, who has hinged his campaign on a strong showing on march 8, when all the southern states but one hold primaries or caucuses
there's a mythology about the south as if it's some kind of foreign country. it's nonsense,'' said dukakis, who picked up endorsements wednesday from former kentucky gov. martha layne collins and former new orleans mayor dutch morial
told that gore had said his opponents were alienated from the voters, the massachusetts governor retorted: ``mr. gore left iowa, virtually left new hampshire. ... i don't know who's alienated.''
rep. richard gephardt, who finished second in new hampshire, was campaigning in south dakota, which holds a ``beauty contest'' primary on tuesday in which voters state a preference that does not commit convention delegates
gephardt strategists said he wanted to head into super tuesday with a recent win under his belt. the missouri congressman also was campaigning in wyoming, which holds caucuses march 5 with 13 delegates at stake
jesse jackson, who made respectable showings in iowa and new hampshire, was back in the south on a swing through florida, texas and alabama. in mobile, he stood with paper workers locked out in a contract dispute, sounding his campaign call for economic justice
the democrats were gathering in dallas for the first of two debates. on friday they move on to st. paul, minn
robertson, in florida, threatened to reignite the controversy he kicked off at a gop debate sunday when he asserted that there are soviet missiles in cuba _ a claim the white house quickly denied
in my opinion they are there,'' the former television evangelist said as he campaigned in lake buena vista on wednesday
robertson had acknowledged after first making the claim that he had no direct evidence to back it up
in nevada, where republicans were holding a straw poll tonight, gop state chairwoman sally vitkus-mckinney said she had heard reports that backers of robertson would try to pack the caucuses. followers of the former television evangelist have flummoxed gop regulars in several states with massive organizing drives
steve wark, nevada coordinator for robertson, said his organizing efforts were no different than those of coordinators for other candidates
the nation's chief prosecutor said thursday he will seek the death penalty for the son of the late president gamal abdel nasser and 10 other people charged in a series of shooting attacks on u.s. and israeli diplomats
prosecutor general mohammed el-guindi announced the indictment of 20 people in the shootings
nasser's eldest son, khaled abdel nasser, and 10 other defendants will be tried for their lives by a high state security court. they are charged with murder, attempted murder and attempting to undermine egypt's internal security and relationships with the united states and israel
the other nine, among them nasser's nephew, gamal shawky abdel nasser, face prison sentences up to life. the indictment accuses them of complicity and covering up knowledge of criminal activity
khaled, 38, is in yugoslavia, and nasser's nephew, a physician, is in britain. egypt has no extradition treaty with either country, and el-guindi said egypt will seek help from the international police agency interpol to catch them
the charges grew out of four attacks in four consecutive years on u.s. and israeli diplomats by gunmen in speeding cars. two israeli diplomats were killed and six others were wounded in shootings between 1984 and 1986. two u.s. diplomats were wounded in the last of the attacks in may 1987
all the attacks were followed by typewritten statements or telephone calls to foreign news service offices in cairo claiming responsibility from a group calling itself egypt's revolution. the statements opposed egypt's 1979 peace treaty with israel, attacked the united states, reflected pro-libyan leanings and professed a pan-arab nasserite ideology
it was one of the key defendants who reportedly broke the case by contacting the u.s. embassy with an offer to sell information about the group. embassy officials interrogated him extensively, then handed him to egyptian authorities, according to egyptian press accounts
the indictment listed nasser's son khaled, a professor at cairo university's engineering school, as the second defendant after mahmoud nour el-din el-sayed ali suliman, 47, a businessman and former administrator at the egyptian embassy in london
it said the two and suliman's younger brother ahmed founded egypt's revolution ``with the aim of committing murder ... and hostile acts'' against the united states and israel
it said mahmoud suliman participated in all four attacks and his brother ahmed in some of them
in addition to helping form an illegal secret group, khaled nasser was accused of financing it and supplying other ``material aid'' including firearms, three hand grenades, bulletproof vests and disguise paraphernalia. he was not charged with participating in the shootings
under the name egypt's revolution, these men assassinated and attempted to assassinate diplomats with the aim of destabilizing the security situation in egypt and spoiling relations between egypt and those countries,'' el-guindi said in summing up the indictment to reporters
there was no intention to overthrow the government.''
the defendants included two former military officers and a former corporal. ``the financing came from abroad, but the investigation has not showed from where,'' el-guindi said
the tone of statements from egypt's revolution and the alleged involvement of nasser's son gave rise to speculation in cairo that the money came from libya, whose leader col. moammar gadhafi is a self-proclaimed disciple of the late egyptian president
the amounts of money the annex said went to finance the group, including monthly salaries to the defendants, totaled hundreds of thousands of dollars
el-guindi refused comment on the reported involvement of the u.s. embassy in breaking the case
one such report came from a leading egyptian newspaper columnist, ahmed bahaa el-din. he told foreign correspondents last november that ahmed suliman approached u.s. diplomats offering to sell information and that the americans' investigation led to the egyptians' solution of the case
leukemia victim stephen l. chapman says it may be best that his younger brother rejected his request to donate critically needed bone marrow for a transplant
the younger brother, randy j. chapman, 31, ran away from home 14 years ago and now lives on the streets of miami, earning money as a test subject for medical experiments
he was a last resort for a match. being on the streets that long, he could be sick or on dope,'' steve chapman, 38, said wednesday. ``there's no telling what he's got. maybe it's better that he didn't agree.''
steve chapman, hospitalized at st. vincent hospital in indianapolis, was urged by his physician to locate the brother because blood types from other relatives were not compatible for a marrow transplant. his wife, two teen-age children, a sister and another brother had all volunteered
i just had a feeling that he wouldn't do it anyway,'' said steve chapman, of oolitic
chapman's wife, cathy, wrote letters to a miami newspaper and called the fbi, the internal revenue service, rep. frank mccloskey, d-ind., and others she thought could help locate the brother
he was found this week, but randy chapman told the miami news that he wanted nothing to do with his brother
i'm not even going to consider it,'' said randy chapman. ``if i sound cruel, well that's the way i feel. i'm not a very forgiving person. if he dies, he dies.''
chapman, on leave from his job as a heavy assembly operator at the rca plant in bloomington, was diagnosed in december as having leukemia
chapman said his disease is in remission and he hopes to leave the hospital next week. he said his physician is considering a treatment used when no compatible donors are available. the procedure involves removing the victim's bone marrow and treating it to remove leukemic cells before returning it
chapman said he hadn't talked to his younger brother in 16 years and wasn't disappointed that he refused to help
he said he is not sure what caused the rift between the brothers, who grew up in bedford in southern indiana playing basketball and fishing together
he said his brother ``got into that long-haired stuff'' before he left indiana
we tried to figure out what he was mad about. we just figured he had a chip on his shoulder,'' the elder brother said. ``randy was always a loner. he got worse after dad died in 1967
i'm glad he's ok. i'd like to see him,'' chapman added. withdrawl; adds 2 delegates to uncommitted republicans to reflect du pont withdrawl.</note>
here is the current breakdown of the presidential preference of the delegates to the democratic and republican national conventions. the preferences are based on delegates' public statements or binding state laws or party rules
              total                  changes
                       today      7 days      30 days dukakis         44.50        0          9           13 gephardt        39           0          6           20 gore            10.55        0          0            0 hart             0           0          0            0 jackson          9.80        0          0            0 simon           33           0          3           17 others           0           0          0            0 uncommitted    278.40        4          0            2
needed to nominate: 2,082
total delegate votes: 4,162
chosen thus far: 415.25
yet to be chosen: 3,746.75
              total                 changes
                       today      7 days      30 days bush           61           0         15           46 dole           42           0          8           34 kemp           35           0          3           32 robertson       8           0          0            8 others          0           0          0            0 uncommitted    10           2          0            8
needed to nominate: 1,139
total delegate votes: 2,277
chosen thus far: 156
yet to be chosen: 2,121
president reagan proposed on thursday to cut spending for agriculture in fiscal 1989 by 5 percent, including sharp reductions for two major rural development agencies
the reagan budget does not call for new legislation or cuts in most farm commodity programs. officials said the one major exception will be an administration attempt to overhaul the u.s. sugar program, which includes protective import quotas and price supports
food programs, including school lunches and food stamps, were left largely unchanged. a year ago, for example, the administration sought to exclude children from affluent families from sharing in the subsidized school lunch program. no such attempt was made this time
the usda proposals include sharp cutbacks in rural housing programs operated by the farmers home administration, to less than $1.4 billion in 1989 from outlays of more than $3.3 billion this year
direct loans by the rural electrification administration to electric and telephone borrowers would be replaced by a system of 70 percent guaranteed loans from private lenders. that would mean a net rea saving of $478 million
agriculture secretary richard e. lyng has previously supported legislation that would reduce the sugar price support from the current 18 cents a pound to 12 cents so domestic sugar would be more competitive with imports
lyng contends the high price supports artificially stimulate u.s. domestic production, thus forcing the united states to impose tighter quotas on imports
the budget reference to overhauling the sugar program brought a critical reponse from dalton yancey, a member of the executive committee of the u.s. sweetener producers group, which wants to keep the current program
if the administration prevails, the winners will be ``the giant industrial corporations that use sweeteners to make soft drinks, candy and processed foods,'' he said. the losers will be ``hundreds of thousands of american farmers'' who produce sugar cane, beets and sweetener-yielding corn, he said
on the other side, tom hammer, president of the sweetener users association, called the current program a costly sham paid for by taxpayers and said ``it is appropriate that this issue be addressed'' in reagan's budget message
under the proposed budget to operate usda in the year beginning oct. 1, total spending would be held to $48.3 billion, down from the estimated outlays of $50.7 billion in the current fiscal year
part of the savings described by usda budget analysts comes from the improved u.s. farm economy, a pickup in commodity exports and general improvements in the agricultural supply-and-demand situation
a report by usda budget analysts said the department's 1989 spending blueprint ``is consistent with the budget summit agreement'' reached last november between the administration and congressional leaders
the budget does not renew proposals made (a year ago for fiscal 1988) for new user fees, changes in the forest service payments to states, changes in the food assistance program, or privatization of the crop insurance program,'' the report said. ``other than for the sugar program, the budget does not propose changes in farm price support programs.''
most of the cutbacks in the farm commodity programs were already endorsed by congress in the food security act of 1985 or in subsequent legislation. the $76 billion deficit reduction package approved in december, for example, included a long list of money savers that will spill over into next fiscal year
cutbacks in target prices for major crops, changes in basic formulas for price support loans to farmers, and many other adjustments and reductions were approved by congress, and are reflected in the proposed budget for usda operations
the reagan budget shows total outlays for farm commodity programs in 1989 dropping to $17.1 billion from a revised estimate of about $17.7 billion this year. outlays rose to a record of $25.8 billion in 1986, before declining to $22.4 billion in 1987, also a revised figure
analysts said the two-year total for commodity program outlays of $34.8 billion represents a savings of $4.9 billion from estimates last august for 1988-89 program spending
of this amount, $2.5 billion in savings can be attributed to the provisions of the budget reconciliation act of 1987, and $2.4 billion in savings to improved supply-and-demand conditions,'' they said
but the long-standing drive by the white house to eliminate at least two rural development programs operated by fmha took another turn. requests were included to operate water and sewer loans at $250 million, and business and industrial development loan guarantees at $96 million
some other items:
_food stamps, proposed at $12.5 billion, remained virtually the same as this year. average participation is projected to decline slightly to about 18.8 million people
_the fmha would boost its level of farm operating loans to $4 billion from $3.1 billion this year, with guarantees to private lenders accounting for a larger share
_research and education programs, at $1.19 billion, would be down from $1.25 billion in estimated outlays this year. emphasis would be on groundwater protection, rural development and food safety
_outlays for marketing and inspection services would be reduced to $860 million from $871 million
president reagan on thursday proposed a $294 billion military budget that would reduce active-duty forces and kill cherished weapons programs to comply with a congressional freeze on his ambitious arms buildup
for the first time in a presidency that had earmarked $2 trillion for defense, reagan proposed significant cuts to american troop strength _ a drop of 34,000 men and women or 1.56 percent. he postponed, perhaps killed, such longstanding goals as providing the navy a 600-ship fleet
he called for retiring hundreds of helicopters and more than a dozen ships sooner than expected, urged congress to give up on development of the mobile midgetman nuclear missile and abandoned the asat satellite-killing rocket. navy blimps, army drones and air force spy planes also fell victim to his budget ax
all told, reagan asked for budget authority totaling $299.5 billion for military programs, of which $294 billion would actually be paid out during the year starting oct. 1
the fiscal 1989 totals represented increases from the $291.4 billion in budget authority and $285.4 billion in outlays set for this year _ but not enough to compensate for inflation, the president said
unlike past years, the administration already had agreed with congress on the totals for military spending. that was done last november in a deal to reduce the national deficit, when the white house agreed to accept $299.5 billion in budget authority instead of the $332.4 billion it really wanted
unveiled thursday, then, were the details of how the administration had scaled back to reach the new targets. defense secretary frank c. carlucci described the changes as painful and risky, but done to a clear set of priorities that emphasized quality over quantity
we've made the hard choices here,'' he said at a pentagon briefing. ``we have traded off a smaller force in order to maintain a quality force.''
to illustrate what he meant, carlucci cited a request to provide military personnel a 4.3 percent pay raise next year instead of the 2 percent planned for civilian workers; a small increase in spending for operations and maintenance to ensure adequate training and deployment schedules; and continued production of existing modern weapons such as the m-1a1 tank and the ah-64 apache helicopter
in dividing up the 26.1 percent of federal outlays that would go to defense in fiscal 1989, carlucci said the administration would not abandon certain longstanding priorities
for example, the pentagon wants $4.55 billion for the star wars missile defense system, compared with $3.55 billion this year. an additional $402 million is being sought for energy department work on star wars
the pentagon is also asking to continue work on a rail-mobile version of the mx missile, and is requesting $1.4 billion for another trident nuclear submarine, carlucci said
on the other hand, the combined active-duty roster of the army, navy, air force and marine corps will be reduced gradually this year from 2,172,000 to 2,138,000 and then held at that level throughout fiscal 1989, carlucci said
the air force will be hit the hardest, giving up about 23,000 jobs toward the total 34,000 being cut
the army will deactivate a motorized infantry brigade at fort lewis, wash., and cancel the scheduled activation of two light infantry battalions in alaska. the navy will scrap plans to establish a 14th air wing at the miramar, calif., naval air station and retire 16 frigates and one submarine it wanted to keep. the air force will deactivate two fighter wings and start deactivating a third
in other moves, carlucci and pentagon comptroller robert helm said:
_the army will retire 450 vietnam-era utility helicopters and 170 scout copters; cancel the aquila surveillance drone program and stop production of copperhead laser-guided artillery shells; cancel development of the anti-tactical missile and develop only one new light helicopter instead of two
_the navy will give up its goal of reaching a 600-ship fleet in fiscal 1989, settling for 580. if congress and the next administration agree, the navy might hit the 600-ship level in fiscal 1992. the navy also will kill its new blimp program and cancel development of a new model of the intruder attack jet, the a-6f
_the air force will deactivate the 474th tactical fighter wing at nellis air force base and one other _ either the 401st air wing now in spain or another one if a new european home is found for the 401st. it will reduce its operation of sr-71 surveillance jets, relying more on satellites; cancel development of the asat satellite-killer rocket, and place the space shuttle launch section of vandenberg air force base into ``mothball'' status
carlucci said he was recommending to congress that it kill development of the single-warhead midgetman nuclear missile, but was requesting $200 million for the program next year to keep the missile alive long enough for the next administration to decide its fate
because of the budget environment, carlucci said he had directed the services to change their planning guidelines for the four years after fiscal 1989 to assume after-inflation increases of 2 percent instead of 3 percent
such growth will be the minimum necessary to reverse four years of lower-than-inflation increases, he said. says</head>
final testing of any aids vaccine might have to be done in africa rather than the united states, because the u.s. aids infection rate is not high enough to determine whether a vaccine is working, a government researcher said thursday
such final testing of a vaccine would pose ``a significant problem in the united states,'' said anthony fauci, director of the national institute of allergy and infectious diseases and coordinator of the government's aids research efforts
even among homosexual men, the rate of new infections is no longer high enough to provide sufficient data on a vaccine's effectiveness, fauci said
the new infection rate among gay men in san francisco is so low, for example, that a test of a vaccine's effectiveness would take eight years and require thousands of volunteers, he said
fauci testified before the presidential commission on the human immunodeficiency virus epidemic, and spoke in a later interview
fauci told the commission he was talking about ``phase iii'' trials, which test how well a vaccine prevents infection. current experimental aids vaccines are in phase i trials, meant only to see whether they are safe and whether they spur an immune response. the next step, phase ii, aims to find the proper safe dose that gives maximum immune system response
phase iii testing requires the administration of the vaccine to healthy people likely to be exposed to the disease. these subjects are then followed for a period of time to see whether or not they contract the disease
in the interview, fauci said that despite substantial infection rates among intravenous drug abusers, they are difficult to study because ``they don't come back'' for follow-up research once a project begins
given the situation in the united states, fauci told the commission, scientists must consider doing phase iii trials in central africa or elsewhere where the new infection rate is still high
he later said central america or haiti are other possibilities
fauci said preliminary discussions have begun with the world health organization and with health officials in central africa. no agreements have been reached, he said, but the africans are ``certainly flexible and open to the possibility of holding these trials.''
he also predicted that no vaccine for acquired immune deficiency syndrome would be available for general use before 1995
in separate testimony, aids expert william haseltine of the dana-farber cancer institute declared, ``nobody can predict with certainty that an aids vaccine can ever be made.''
but, he said, ``i remain cautiously optimistic.''
a vaccine is a substance that produces an immune system response that will fight off infection. there are other drugs that attack a virus directly
haseltine said the aids virus evades the disease-fighting immune system in several ways, including hiding underneath a surface coating of sugar that prevents key proteins from being attacked by immune system antibodies
in addition, the virus can infect cells and lie dormant, giving no sign of its presence to the immune system, he said
even in the absence of a vaccine, he said, virus-fighting drugs may soon be harnessed to prevent infection. that may be useful for scientific and health workers who work with the virus, for newborns of infected mothers, sex partners of infected people and others at high risk of infection, he said
vincent gardenia, nominated for an academy award for best supporting actor, says he's been preparing for his role in ``moonstruck'' all his life
i've absorbed my own italian heritage, and i remember my father, my mother and my grandfather,'' gardenia said wednesday after the oscar nominations were announced. ``i grew up in an italian community and still live in one in brooklyn.''
gardenia portrayed cosmo castorini, a rich plumber who fears growing old and has an extramarital affair in the hope of regaining his youth
i felt he was very real,'' gardenia said of his character. ``and i thought it was good that we were able to show an italian man who was not a thief or any other stereotype. instead, he was just an ordinary man, capable of showing emotion and being sentimental.''
gardenia is starring in the broadway play ``i'm not rappaport'' at the tennessee performing arts center through sunday
joan rivers on thursday praised a judge's ruling allowing her to proceed with her $50 million lawsuit against gentlemen's quarterly, which published an article saying she wished her husband dead
superior court judge dzintra janavs on wednesday tossed out an emotional distress claim miss rivers made in the lawsuit. however, the judge allowed her defamation claim against the magazine and writer ben stein to stand and go to trial
thank god judge janavs saw the real issue and denied gq's motion to dismiss my libel suit,'' miss rivers said through her publicist, richard grant
the article in gq's december issue claimed miss rivers told a visitor she wished her husband edgar rosenberg was dead before he committed suicide in august
attorneys for conde nast publications, publisher of gentlemen's quarterly, denied the defamation allegation as well as the emotional distress claim
pulitzer prize-winning cartoonist garry trudeau says writing for television is similar to drawing daily comic strips
trudeau is in nashville for the filming of ``tanner '88,'' a two-part show that he wrote for home box office
this is much closer to what i do in the strip than if i were writing for a feature film _ this is anecdotal and episodic, there's less of beginning, middle and end. it's open-ended like the strip,'' trudeau said wednesday on a set of the show, being directed by robert altman
tanner '88'' follows the campaign of a democratic candidate for president
i was more interested in exploring the process of a modern campaign from a backstage point of view,'' he said. ``the candidate we put together is the one i felt most interested in writing for, but i could just as easily have written a character from the right.''
director louis malle, whose ``au revoir les enfants'' received two oscar nominations, says he drew on his childhood experiences, especially days at a wealthy boarding school in france, to write the movie
the movie, nominated wednesday for best foreign film and best original screenplay academy awards, isn't altogether autobiographical, however
imagination used memory as a springboard; i reinvented the past,'' malle said in an interview published thursday in the los angeles times
au revoir les enfants,'' which means ``goodbye, children,'' is about a jewish boy who, during world war ii, is hidden and protected by monks who run a boarding school. the boy is eventually betrayed to the gestapo by a kitchen helper
as a schoolboy, malle befriended a similar jewish boy, who met the same fate when someone betrayed the monks
enzo ferrari went to work as usual thursday at the factory that builds the legendary fast cars that bear his name, and then sat down with his workers at lunch to celebrate his 90th birthday
ferraris have been a fixture of the highly competitive grand prix formula one races since he founded the company in 1946 in this northern italian town, and the company's exotic sports cars have appeared in movies and tv series and graced rich collectors' garages
ferrari had sent each of his 1,742 employees an invitation which said: ``i expect you for lunch thursday at the factory in maranello.'' but he asked that photographers, journalists and strangers be kept off the premises
three hundred waiters served lunch near the assembly line
the workers each received a miniature reproduction of the f40, the latest model ferrari, and a silver medal engraved with the ferrari trademark prancing horse. they honored their boss with a gold plaque
band leader xavier cugat was resting comfortably thursday a day after he was hospitalized for lung congestion and hypertension, his doctors said
the 88-year-old spanish-born musician is credited with introducing tropical rhythms into american popular dance music
doctors at quiron clinic said he spent the night in intensive care
a u.s. citizen since he was 12, cugat gave up a 50-year band career in 1970 and handed over his orchestra to tito puente. ten years later, he returned to spain
in late 1986 he returned to the road and night clubs in spain with a 16-piece band, three singers and two dancers specializing in cuban numbers. since he returned to live in barcelona, cugat has suffered four heart attacks and a severe stroke
president reagan's $1.1 trillion election-year budget represents more political accommodation than the seven that preceded it. it gives republicans a host of projects to champion and democrats a chance to join them in fleeing town early to campaign
instead of the deep domestic spending cuts and hefty defense increases that marked past reagan budgets, the new spending outline appears designed to avoid fruitless controversy with the democratic-controlled congress
in any other year, it could have been a budget alternative drafted by democratic leaders: a pentagon spending request that doesn't even keep pace with inflation, coupled with sharp increases for education, science, environmental cleanup and the battle against aids
and while the budget contains a raft of warmed over cost-cutting proposals from previous budgets _ sale of government loans, ``privatization'' of amtrak _ the focus this year is clearly on innovative new spending programs
much of the fiscal 1989 reagan budget was already preordained _ courtesy of a two-year framework agreement struck with congress last fall that was designed to restore market confidence in the government's ability to govern in the aftermath of the stock market collapse
that pact set overall limits on defense spending, foreign aid, domestic spending and new taxes _ removing in a single stoke the objects of most past white house-congress budget brawls
it's a rather unique year,'' treasury secretary james a. baker iii conceded on thursday
echoed budget director james c. miller iii: ``things are different this year. we have an agreement. their numbers are our numbers an our numbers are their numbers.''
miller also suggested that, with party conventions and re-election campaigns fast approaching, no one is going to want to stay in washington longer than necessary to engage in protracted budget battles
they (congress) need to work very fast on this budget, and i anticipate they will do so.''
and, while congress was not expected to swallow the reagan spending proposals whole, the new budget was better received on capitol hill than any recent adminstration offering
i think it's a good faith budget,'' said senate budget committee chairman lawton chiles, d-fla. ``it looks like it meets the (budget) summit agreements. it's right at the targets.''
still, the administration went one step further than those targets in crafting a politically palatable budget document _ in some cases staking out for itself, territory that previously had been claimed by the democrats
for instance, after being widely condemned last year for proposing a nearly $5 billion cut in education spending, the administration did a flip-flop in the new budget and called for a $1.5 billion increase
not only does that make political life easier for congressional republicans this year, but it also robs democrats of a potential campaign issue
the president has decided to make education a priority,'' said education secretary william bennett. ``...we think it's good politics.''
it's pointless to waste time with a budget proposal which virtually no one in congress takes seriously,'' he added
national education association president mary hatwood futrell says that the about-face on eduction shouldn't be a surprise. ``this is an election year. in election years, the reagan white house supports eduction. in every other year, president reagan has sought deep cuts.''
in other dramatic changes, the new reagan budget calls for large increases in combating acid rain and in cleaning up the nation's toxic waste dumps _ two programs critics had accused the administration of neglecting in the past
proposals for $1.3 billion in additional funds for aids research and correspondingly sharp increases in funds for building more federal prisons, modernizing the air control system and making the space shuttle safer and more reliable are also likely to play well in this election year
in addition, the administration has thrown congress another election-year bone: a rosy economic forecast
the administration's budget assumes declining inflation, falling interest rates and an economic growth rate of 2.4 percent this year and 3.5 percent next year _ somewhat more optimistic than the forecasts by private and congressional economists
the reagan economic assumptions would result in a lowering of the federal deficit from its current $150 billion to $129.5 billion in fiscal 1989, well below the target in the gramm-rudman deficit-reduction law, according to the administration
by contrast, a recent congressional budget office analysis suggests that the 1989 deficit could be as high as $176 billion _ even under the budget agreement
but, by accepting the white house budget forecasts _ and not those of its own budget office _ congress will have an easier time producing the needed savings to meet the gramm-rudman target, at least on paper
and congress will do just that _ under a revision added last year when the gramm-rudman law was revised
even though a deteriorating economy could eventually bring the white house and congress back to the negotiating table to find more savings, accepting the more optimistic white house projections will at least buy time for members of congress _ time to pay more attention to election-year politics
this is the year of the big wink,'' said rep. dan rostenkowski, d-ill, chairman of the house ways and means committee
editor's note: tom raum has been the chief economics correspondent for the associated press since 1985. retarded son</head>
an ailing 81-year-old woman tried to shoot her retarded son to death because she was afraid to leave him ``at the mercy of strangers,'' her attorney said thursday
geraldine sagel was sentenced wednesday to 30 months' probation at a nursing home by circuit judge william d. block, who said, ``sometimes a mother's love puts people in strange situations.''
the aggravated battery charge carried a maximum penalty of five years in prison and a fine of $10,000
it was an act of love and compassion for her son. being the only one who had ever, ever cared for him, she felt it her responsibility to make sure he was at peace before she died,'' assistant public defender laureen casey said thursday
she had indicated that she wanted to take his life and then would take her own,'' said ms. casey, adding her client suffers from poor eyesight, emphysema, loss of hearing and is losing her memory
ms. sagel of ingleside admitted shooting her 51-year-old son, jack ``butch'' sagel, who suffers from dwarfism as well as developmental disabilities
i didn't want to leave him behind,'' she told the court from her wheelchair before sentencing
i was going blind, my health was failing every day. he would be on the mercy of the world. i didn't want that, your honor. i love him too much for that,'' she said
block said ms. sagel could have supervised visits with her son, whom she had been allowed to see only once since her arrest in early october
ms. sagel is to spend her probationary period at nearby hillcrest retirement village, where she has been since her arrest. she was not taking telephone calls thursday, said a staff member at hillcrest who refused to give her name
jack sagel will remain at the waukegan development center, where he has been since early october. center officials would not discuss his case, said belinda schmidtbauer, who answered the telephone there
ms. sagel fired the .22 caliber pistol on sept. 30 intending to shoot her son in the heart, but the bullet pierced his shoulder and then the gun jammed, lake county chief deputy state's attorney michael waller said thursday
i don't think society can condone what she did,'' he said. ``but you can empathize with her feelings. i don't have any qualms about the outcome.''
the shooting was reported a few days later by a neighbor who recognized the bullet wound after sagel complained that his shoulder hurt, waller said
police and prosecutors were unable to question the victim because of his disabilities, he said
this case was more of a human tragedy than most criminal cases. in a lot of cases you view the defendent as a bad guy _ you can't really say she was a bad guy,'' waller said
sagel, who has the mental capabilities of a young child, did small tasks for his mother like going to the store or getting the paper, ms. casey said. he cannot read or write
ms. sagel shot her son because she ``feared he would be at the mercy of strangers and be taken for granted and even abused,'' ms. casey said
she described the sagels' relationship as ``the most intense level of the mother-son relationship i've ever seen.''
when i talk to her about seeing him, she really lights up. she always says, `tell him i love him.' just like a mother.'''
the house ethics committee recommended thursday that rep. mario biaggi, a 10-term new york democrat convicted of accepting illegal gratuities, be expelled from congress for violating its rules of conduct
the committee issued a three-sentence statement: ``the committee on standards of official conduct today filed a report with the house recommending that representative mario biaggi of new york be expelled. the report will be made available as soon as it has been printed by the u.s. government printing office. neither the committee nor its staff will have any further comment on this matter.'''
biaggi, once the most-decorated policeman on the new york city force, could become the first congressman since 1980 and only the second since the civil war to be drummed out of the house
the committee's recommendation must be approved by a two-thirds majority of the house to become effective
the last congressman to be expelled was rep. michael ``ozzie'' myers, d-pa. myers, convicted in the abscam bribery scandal, was captured on videotape taking $50,000 from an undercover fbi agent. before myers, no house member had been expelled since the civil war
the committee could have recommended a wide range of sanctions, including expulsion, censure, reprimand, fine, or loss of seniority
biaggi, 70, pleaded with the ethics committee in december to keep his bronx, n.y., congressional seat. his lawyers had asked the panel instead to reprimand the congressman, chairman julian dixon, d-calif., said at the time
but the committee counsel recommended expulsion and more than a month later, the members chose to invoke their harshest punishment
in november, two committee lawyers issued a report that said biaggi had ``discredited the house of representatives as an institution'' after he was convicted of accepting paid vacations in exchange for helping to steer government contracts toward a floundering brooklyn shipyard
biaggi was sentenced in november to 2{ years in prison and fined $500,000. he is free pending appeal
biaggi was convicted in september of illegally accepting paid vacations from former brooklyn democratic leader meade esposito. esposito had asked biaggi to use his influence to help coastal dry dock and repair, a shipyard that owed large insurance premiums to esposito's brokerage company
esposito, who was convicted of paying gratuities and of illegal interstate travel, was sentenced to a two-year suspended prison term. he also must pay a fine of $500,000, serve two years' probation and perform 500 hours of community service
biaggi faces another trial next month in manhattan federal court on racketeering and bribery charges in a case involving wedtech corp., a bronx defense contractor.    with jordan; picks up 3rd graf pvs; inserts 1 graf after 14th `the limitation ...' with further info on jordan.</note>
israel imposed tough rules on the occupied territories thursday that are intended to cripple the palestinians economically unless they stop strikes, witholding of taxes and other acts of civil disobedience
prime minister yitzhak shamir said he would not trade concessions for an end to 10 weeks of riots in the occupied west bank and gaza strip. ``those who incite and resort to violence should not come away with any reward,'' he said
an economic boycott of israel has become a growing accompaniement to the violence in the occupied lands
israel's new restrictions are designed to hinder the flow of plo funds into the territories, and requiring merchants to prove they have paid taxes could curtail the daily trade in produce and other goods across the allenby bridge between the west bank and jordan
arrests were reported thursday but no casualties in confrontations between soldiers and protesters in the occupied west bank and gaza strip, where u.n. officials say 55 arabs have been killed in the violence that began dec. 8
news photographers saw a jewish settler fire shots into the air at the dheishe refugee camp to disperse stone-throwing young palestinians, and protests were reported in arab neighborhoods of jerusalem
soldiers arrested 21 arabs suspected of inciting and participating in riots in burka, a west bank village, israel radio said. the military confirmed arrests were made, but said disclosing the number would violate policy
jerusalem police plan an operation involving 1,500 officers, some brought in from west bank towns, who will perform round-the-clock guard duty in arab neighborhoods starting sunday, the radio said
it said police also would arrest suspected ringleaders in an effort to curb disturbances that are expected later this month when secretary of state george p. shultz visits israel. city spokesman rafi devara confirmed the report
increasing numbers of the 1.5 million palestinians in the west bank and gaza have adopted passive resistance to oppose israeli occupation, which began when the territories were captured from jordan and egypt in the 1967 middle east war
leaflets and radio broadcasts urge them not to pay taxes to the jewish state, work for israelis or buy israeli-made goods
only about half the 105,000 palestinians who worked in israel before dec. 8 now do so. only a small percentage of palestinians have paid taxes so far this year, according to the arab-run palestine press service and such israeli sources as the army's information center
militants put pressure on palestinians to keep up the boycott. a teen-ager stabbed a fellow arab in the face thursday, apparently because he drove palestinians to work in israel, israel radio said
if the trend continues and takes root, it will become a serious problem,'' said a senior official in the military government that administers the territories
he said the new financial restrictions require palestinians to prove they have paid their taxes before they can travel abroad or import or export goods, and also must register when they bring $1,000 or more into the country. the previous limit was $5,000
the limitation on money is intended to make it difficult for the palestine liberation organization to support arabs who stay away from their jobs
restrictions on imports and exports could have a serious effect on the daily trade with jordan on which palestinians in the west bank are heavily dependent
we hope this, combined with other measures, will help quell the disturbances,'' said the official, who spoke on condition of anonymity. ``the people have to decide who they should be more afraid of, the israelis or the arab inciters.''
mubarak awad, arab-american director of the palestinian center for non-violence, said the new restrictions would not quash growing support for peaceful resistance
what we are going to do is hide our income so we won't have to pay taxes on it,'' he told the associated press. ``we will urge people to pay cash instead of checks and not to use money changers or banks.''
although the government cancelled awad's residency permit because of his calls for non-violent resistance, he has not been expelled. his u.s. address is wapakoneta, ohio
the israeli official said arabs hurt themselves by refusing to pay taxes
we raised about $114 million in taxes from the palestinians in 1987, and that money goes back into the arab towns to maintain a good quality of life,'' he said
israel collects taxes on property, and business and personal income. there also are import duties, a sales tax and stamp taxes on documents
discord between shamir and foreign minister shimon peres, his partner and rival in the coalition government, has been growing
peres, leader of the center-left labor party, said shamir's right-wing likud bloc had not produced a single peace initiative that ``paves the way for negotiations to resolve the confict between us and the arabs.''
shamir said in a speech to the jewish agency's board of governors that israel should not move too quickly to give the palestinians new rights
there is a need for a considerable period of ... coexistence between us and the palestinian arab authorities before the question of sovereignty can be approached,'' he said, adding the comment about rewarding violence
the u.s. initiative shultz will pursue is said to call for palestinians to elect new leaders with whom israel would negotiate a plan for self-rule
the reagan administration on thursday said the economy was shrugging off the impact of the october stock market collapse and would enjoy modest growth this presidential election year with no threat of a recession
in its 1989 budget request, the administration foresaw no storm clouds on the economic horizon, contending that growth would slow during the first half of 1988 but then rebound to robust levels in 1989 and beyond
the administration's economic forecasts, which provide the underpinning for its assumptions on revenues and spending in the budget, have been attacked in the past as ``rosy scenarios'' which bore little resemblance to reality
but this year's version was greeted with less skepticism, although it was still more optimistic than the outlook prepared by the congressional budget office and most private economists
in the last couple of years, the administration has lightened the tint on their rose-colored glasses although their outlook is still a lot rosier than we think is justified,'' said david wyss, an economist with data resources inc., one of the country's leading economic forecasting firms
the administration derided as ``greatly exaggerated'' the recession fears stirred by the record 508-point drop in the new york stock exchange's dow jones industrial average on oct. 19, contending that the economy had escaped with ``few signs of serious damage.''
the administration predicted the gross national product, the total output of goods and services, would expand at a modest rate of 2.4 percent this year, down from 3.8 percent growth in 1987, when measured from the fourth quarter of 1986
congressional analysts are forecasting lower growth of 1.8 percent in 1988 and wyss said data resources has just scaled back its own gnp forecast to 1.4 percent, a full percentage point below the administration
lower economic growth means less tax revenue for the government and thus larger budget deficits
the administration calls for reducing the deficit to $129.5 billion in the fiscal year that begins next oct. 1, down from an actual deficit of $150.2 billion in 1987 and an estimated $146.7 billion in the current fiscal year
in its long-range forecasts, the administration sees the deficit still at $79.3 billion in 1991, slightly above the $78 billion deficit the government was running in 1981 when ronald reagan took office with a pledge to balance the budget within three years
in its eighth budget to congress, the administration blamed some familiar foes for its biggest economic failure, the doubling of the national debt. the administration placed much of the blame on congress for failing to accept reagan's program of domestic spending cuts. it also cited the 1981-82 recession, saying the severe downturn boosted the deficit by $112 billion in 1983 alone
the administration conceded that a worse-than-expected economic performance could doom even its more modest expectations on deficit reductions. the budget document said that if economic growth is just 1 percent lower than the administration is forecasting over the next five years it would add $6.3 billion to the 1989 deficit and $66 billion to the 1993 deficit
in its economic assumptions, the administration forecast:
_ gnp growth will rebound in 1989 to a 3.5 percent rate and stay above 3 percent through 1993. many private economists expect the new president will very likely face a recession in 1989 or 1990. the current recovery has already lasted a peacetime record of 63 months, twice as long as the normal recovery
_ consumer prices, which rose 4.4 percent last year, will rise by 4.3 percent this year and decline steadily over the next four years to a 2 percent rate of inflation in 1993
_ unemployment will show no improvement this year, because of the modest growth forecast, but will not get worse, either, holding steady at the current 5.8 percent rate. in following years, the jobless rate, which many economists believe is approaching effective full employment, will dip slightly to 5.2 percent by the end of 1993
boris yeltsin, the former moscow communist party chief, had been an outspoken supporter of mikhail s. gorbachev's policy of greater openness, but it led to his downfall when his criticism apparently went farther than the soviet leader was willing to allow
yeltsin, 57, was fired from the moscow post nov. 11 after he criticized the party's style of leadership and the slow pace of gorbachev's reform policies _ known as perestroika _ during a meeting of the policy-making central committee
at the next centra,l committee meeting, which ended thursday, yeltsin was dropped from his position as a candidate, or non-voting member of the communist party's ruling politburo
yeltsin came to moscow two years ago to take over the party organization that had been run by viktor grishin, who was tainted by charges of corruption
he raised topics that previous officials had left untouched. he discussed the existence of special food stores for the soviet elite, he used mass transit and made unannounced visits to stores to see if the products were fresh
but when yeltsin was stripped of the job in november, gorbachev sharply criticized him for being overly ambitious. in remarks that were printed in the official press, yeltsin said he was ``very guilty'' before the local party organization and gorbachev
purported copies of his oct. 21 central committee speech that were circulated in moscow and printed in some western newspapers said he had even criticized the style of gorbachev's wife, raisa
he was hospitalized for heart problems after he lost the moscow party leadership, but since has returned to work in his new job as a deputy chairman of the state construction committee, a position that carries the rank of a government minister
yeltsin's ouster was seen by some soviets and western observers as a bad omen for the continuation of gorbachev's policy of promoting a greater variety of opinions and more openness, known by the russian word ``glasnost.''
gorbachev acknowledged in a speech to writers and artists in january that the firing of yeltsin ``was viewed by some intellectuals, especially the young people, as a blow to perestroika.''
however, he said that was the ``greatest delusion.''
republicans in the state assembly declared themselves unanimously opposed wednesday to gov. mario cuomo's plan to permit distribution of hypodermic needles to some drug addicts to combat the spread of aids
the 56 republicans from the 150-member assembly approved a resolution calling for the issue to be submitted to the legislature and not handled administratively by state health commissioner dr. david axelrod
the way the free-needle plan was approved is as dubious as the plan itself,'' said assembly minority leader clarence rappleyea. ``the notion of state-subsidized drug abuse is abhorrent.''
republican assemblyman george pataki called the plan ``constitutionally, scientifically and practically flawed.''
the republican resolution said that ``dispensing needles to addicts not only undermines society's battle against drugs, but provides a contradictory message to our children who are being taught to say `no' to drugs.''
possession of hypodermic needles without a prescription is a crime in new york, but the health commissioner has the discretion to exempt certain classes of people from the law. that's what axelrod has said he will do when he and new york city health commissioner dr. stephen joseph settle on the details of a test program in new york city
it's a very limited program of only 200 people and a carefully controlled test of the idea to see if it can change behavior,'' said axelrod's spokesman, peter slocum
cuomo has said the experiment will be closely monitored and ended quickly if it doesn't have any impact on the spread of aids
the proposal calls for providing needles only to about 200 addicts who have applied for drug-treatment programs. the experiment is expected to last for about six months. as part of the plan, the state is supposed to expand its drug-treatment programs that are already unable to handle all the applicants
most case of aids, acquired immune deficiency syndrome, have appeared in homosexual males or intravenous drug users. in new york city, the majority of the new cases of the fatal disease, for which there is no known cure, have appeared in drug users. researchers believe that the disease spreads among drug addicts because they share needles that may be contaminated by tainted blood
three soviet diplomats arrived wednesday to study living arrangements for countrymen who may be stationed in utah to monitor compliance with the intermediate nuclear forces treaty
igor kripovnov, first secretary at the soviet embassy in washington, alecsandr zobkov, an assistant military attache, also from washington, and vladimir sadovnikov, identified only as a representative from moscow, arrived by commercial jet, said carey cavanaugh, a representative from the state department's office of soviet union affairs
the delegation is here ``just to get a general feel of the salt lake area,'' he said. three americans are in the soviet city of votkinsk for a simultaneous visit
both areas were identified on the intermediate nuclear forces treaty as areas where monitoring for the inspection of inf sites could take place,'' cavanaugh said
dave porter, a spokesman for sen. orrin hatch, r-utah, said the delegation would tour the community of magna, about 25 miles southwest of salt lake city
magna, population 8,500, is a few miles from the hercules bacchus west plant. as many as 30 soviet inspectors may establish a compound near the plant if the senate ratifies the inf treaty, signed dec. 7 by president reagan and soviet leader mikhail gorbachev
the treaty would eliminate all intermediate-range nuclear missiles in both countries' arsenals
the soviets' proposed inf team would monitor hercules, which developed motors for the pershing ii missiles which would be , banned under the treaty
porter said the soviet advance team would not be visiting hercules this week. ``they'll see the outer gate of hercules, but won't go in at all,'' he said
a majority of striking employees at ford motor co.'s british plants voted thursday to accept a two-year contract offer, signaling the end of the country's first major industrial strike in three years
the offer represented the first significant union victory in britain in seven years. ford made several concessions to end the strike, which began feb. 8
voter returns thursday night showed 70 percent of the workers at the 22 british plants favored the offer, ford said. the company said it expected workers to be back on the job monday
the transport and general workers union, which represents two-thirds of the workers, confirmed that about 70 percent of its members supported the proposal
a final vote count was expected to be released friday
the settlement was worked out in negotiations tuesday between company and union officials
the company backed down on its demand for a three-year contract, offering the two-year pact instead, and agreed to a wage increase of at least 14 percent over the term of the contract
previously, it offered an increase of 7 percent in the first year and 2.5 percent above the rate of inflation _ which is currently 3.3 percent _ over the next two years
a middle-range worker earned $327 a week under the old contract
ford won some changes in work practices to boost productivity, but they must be agreed to on the plant level rather than imposed by management
the last major british union victory occurred in february 1981, when prime minister margaret thatcher backed off plans to close coal pits after miners threatened a nationwide strike
the ford strike has prompted layoffs of more than 9,700 ford workers in genk, belgium. it also threatened production at ford plants in spain and west germany, which rely on parts made at the british plants
the car company said it didn't know when production at the genk plant would return to normal
ford said the strike, the to hit the automaker in britain in nearly a decade, was costing the company $350 million in lost production. ford's british workers last struck in 1978, when they walked out for nine weeks
the strike, combined with a recent walkout by ferry workers and labor unrest in the state-run national health service and coal mines, prompted concern that there might be a new wave of industrial strikes and an increase in pay demands in britain
britain has been relatively free of labor strife since mrs. thatcher's conservative government came to power and curbed the influence of britain's once-powerful unions
the last major industrial strike in britain was a yearlong walkout by more than 90,000 coal miners in 1984-85. it ended in defeat for their union
a 9-year-old boy who survived almost 40 minutes under water in an ice-covered pond walked out of the hospital wednesday, and doctors said he had made almost a complete recovery from his near-drowning five weeks earlier
kendall smith was in a coma for two weeks after he fell through the ice jan. 12 near his dillon home, in northeastern south carolina. but doctors at the medical university of south carolina hospital said he progressed rapidly once he recovered consciousness
we're all humbled as caretakers to see what many of us would consider, if not miraculous, a near-miraculous recovery,'' said dr. fred tecklenburg, one of kendall's attending physicians
i thank god for giving everyone the knowledge and skills to do what they've done for my child. it's a miracle,'' said the boy's mother, mary
kendall received parting gifts of a new electronic musical keyboard and a bicyle. he and family members met with reporters prior to his release
asked how he felt, kendall shyly said, ``good,'' and agreed that while he would have to return to school, he wasn't quite ready to do so
smiling brightly, the youth wearing black jeans with suspenders, a blue-striped shirt and a white hat, evoked laughter from reporters and hospital workers as the keyboard suddenly sounded a syncopated rhythm. ``i don't know how to play this thing,'' he said with a laugh
tecklenburg said the keyboard was an appropriate gift because the first time the youth opened his eyes after the accident it was to the sound of a similar keyboard
kendall was playing with two companions on the frozen surface of a pond when the ice gave way. his two friends were rescued quickly from the water, but it took rescuers almost 40 minutes to fish kendall out using grappling hooks
tecklenburg said kendall is one of only about five children in the medical literature to have been under water for more than 30 minutes and recovered completely
in icy water, the body's metabolism slows and the brain doesn't need as much oxygen. the reflex is particularly powerful in children, doctors say
tecklenburg said kendall tested at his age level on several standardized tests administered about 10 days ago
kendall has very minimal disabilities,'' said dr. karen powers, another physician who treated the youth
she said he may start out going to only a half day of school to allow his endurance to build up and said he may be seen by a speech therapist, if needed
mrs. smith said that during her son's recovery ``everybody kept telling me to keep the faith and don't give up. all i could do is keep praying.''
cards and letters for kendall were sent from throughout the nation and tecklenburg called it ``a tribute to our country that so many people have been concerned about kendall.''
president reagan, for only the second time in eight budgets, asked congress thursday to increase spending on education, with much of the extra $1.5 billion going to help students pay for college
the administration also requested modest increases in several social programs including rental vouchers for low-income families, drug abuse prevention, foster care and adoption assistance, and prenatal care for pregnant women
but some programs for the needy would suffer cuts under the proposal, including a $400 million, 25 percent cut in help for the poor to pay heating and cooling bills. head start would be frozen at $1.2 billion, and other social programs would be left with no increases or small ones lagging behind inflation
the department of education's proposed $20.3 billion fiscal 1989 budget is $1.5 billion, or 8 percent higher, than what it expects to spend this year. the administration asked for budget authority of $21.2 billion _ fully $7.2 billion more than it sought for the department 12 months ago
the proposed budget adds $590 million to the pell grant program for needy college and trade school students, for a total of nearly $5 billion, and raises the maximum individual grant in 1989-90 to $2,300, a $100 increase. some 3.4 million students would receive grants that year, up from an estimated 3.1 million this fall and 2.9 million during the current academic year
an additional $517 million would be spent on chapter 1, the tutoring program for disadvantaged children at risk of academic failure, bringing it up to nearly $4.4 billion to serve 5.6 million students
the administration proposed modest expansions of magnet school, drug education, adult literacy and handicapped education programs, and wants to increase college loans that tie repayments to future income levels
it also asked for a college savings bond program, widely supported in congress, with tax-free interest on u.s. savings bonds used for postsecondary education
education secretary william j. bennett, asked to explain the budget reversal, said, ``it's pointless to waste time with a budget proposal which virtually no one in congress takes seriously.''
the administration has only requested education increases in 1984 and 1988 _ both presidential election years. asked about the timing, bennett said, ``we hope it's good politics. we think it's sensible.''
despite the boosts in some areas, bennett said he expected ``the `whine-ometer' will still register'' among department critics. he was not disappointed
albert shanker, president of the american federation of teachers, said his union welcomed `'the administration's turnaround'' but said there are ``still many gaps in the president's priorities.''
mary hatwood futrell, president of the national education association, derided the proposal as an election-year ploy ``that does children ... no favors.'' she said the program for students at risk serves 1.3 million fewer children than in 1980 and should be funded at $20 billion to reach all who need it
robert greenstein, director of the center for budget priorities, a liberal watchdog group, said, ``it's an improvement over previous reagan budgets.'' but he charged reagan was inflicting cuts on programs for the needy to pay for a 29 percent boost in the space program
in addition to the reduction in energy aid, greenstein cited proposed reductions in aid to soup kitchens, food banks and shelter for the homeless; low-income rural housing; legal services for the poor; refugee assistance; community development and community service block grants; and housing assistance for the low-income elderly and handicapped
two scientists who reported isolating an aids-related human virus say they now think some original samples were probably monkey virus, but that scientific conclusions about it remain unchanged
myron essex and phyllis kanki of the harvard school of public health, writing in thursday's issue of the british journal nature, say certain virus samples they reported in 1986 as htlv-iv from healthy africans should be considered an aids virus from monkeys instead
their virus has since been found in humans
it is now considered to be hiv-2, a virus restricted chiefly to west africa that causes acquired immune deficiency syndrome. the aids virus found in the united states is called hiv-1
the harvard scientists' statement accompanies a report by researchers at the new england regional primate center in southborough, mass. the report gives evidence that original htlv-iv samples were actually monkey virus that had contaminated human cells in the laboratory
the study reports unusually strong similarities between the htlv-iv samples and a ``simian immunodeficiency virus'' found in macaques
essex, in a telephone interview, said the new data made it likely that some original htlv-iv samples were monkey virus. he also said he knew of no subsequent studies that would have to be considered invalid because of the mistake
in a nature editorial, carel mulder of the university of massachusetts medical school at worcester said the original misidentification will not affect results of epidemiological studies of the virus by essex and kanki
but the incident should serve as a warning to virologists, he wrote. he said he knew of, or has been told of, at least five instances in other american and european laboratories where cells were accidentally infected with hiv-1 in the laboratory
in the past, several scientists have said they suspected laboratory contamination in the original report of htlv-iv. material from briefing</note>
president reagan on thursday declared that aids is his ``highest public health priority'' and asked congress for a 38 percent budget boost, to $1.3 billion, to combat the deadly and spreading disease
in addition, the budget envisions spending $736 million under medicaid and medicare to care for people already suffering from the illness
congress consistently has appropriated more than reagan requested for aids, but the general outlines for the fiscal 1989 proposal were worked out in closer consultation than in previous years and congress is not as likely to vote a large addition this year
for example, reagan's initial request for aids spending for fiscal 1988 was $534 million, compared with the $951 million eventually approved by congress
for fiscal 1987, reagan initially requested $213 million for aids and congress wound up allocating $502 million
the huge jump for aids spending stands out even more starkly when compared with the net increase of 5.8 percent proposed for overall operation of the 250 programs administered by the department of health and human services, which oversees roughly a third of all federal spending
the total hhs budget is to rise from $375.1 billion to $396.8 billion
but the bulk of that _ nearly 95 percent _ goes for so-called entitlement programs, such as social security, medicare and medicaid, over which the administration has marginal control because basic eligiblity criteria _ including treatment of aids patients _ are laid down by law
social security's old age and disability programs alone are expected to grow by $14 billion, or 6.4 percent, to $233.8 billion. that includes money for new recipients coming onto the rolls as the population ages as well as an anticipated 4.2 percent cost-of-living increase next january for all 38 million beneficiaries
medicaid, the state-federal health program for poor people, will cost the federal government $32.7 billion in 1989, up 7 percent from $30.7 billion currently
much of the medicaid increase is attributed to additional spending on aids patients, an estimated 40 percent of whom qualify for the program either when they first contract the disease or soon afterward because they become unable to work
medicaid spending on aids is estimated at $375 million this year and is budgeted to grow to $600 million next year
medicare spending for 33 million elderly or disabled workers is projected to rise to $84 billion from $78.9 billion
the most controversial part of the hhs budget is likely to be reagan's proposal for $1.2 billion in medicare cuts he says are necessary to meet the deficit-reduction targets that congress and the administration agreed to in december
those differences largely boil down to disagreement over whether congressional budget office projections of overall medicare spending are more accurate than those projected by the office of management and budget
deficit negotiators agreed previously to cut $3.5 million from medicare and the administration argues that the $1.2 billion cut in its proposal will be needed to meet that target
the chairmen of the house ways and means committee and senate finance committee already have written to the white house expressing determination to fight the additional cut
of the $1.2 billion in question, about $1 billion would come from reducing special payments made to large teaching hospitals to help cover educational costs of interns
at a briefing on the hhs budget, department chief of staff thomas burke cited a recent inspector general's finding that the teaching hospitals' medicare profits are 2{ times that of their non-teaching counterparts
it would seem these hospitals are going to be able to absorb this reduction,'' burke said
the other $200 million in savings would come from limiting medicare payments for durable medical equipment, reducing payments for radiology and anesthesiology services, closing ``a loophole in payments for home dialysis treatment for end-stage renal disease,'' more intense of physician claims, and by making permanent the existing requirement that medicare part b monthly premiums _ now $24.80 _ cover 25 percent of the program costs
aids, or acquired immune deficiency syndrome, is a contagious disease that attacks the body's immune system, rendering it incapable of resisting other diseases and infections
the centers for disease control reports that as of jan. 25, 1988, aids had been diagnosed in 51,916 americans, of whom more than half, or 28,965, have died since 1979. no one is known to have recovered from aids
here are excerpts from the text of thursday's address to the communist party central committee by soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev, as translated into english by tass, the official soviet news agency:
(education)
there is absolutely no doubt that everything that concerns school, education and upbringing is directly linked to the development of socialism, to perestroika. moreover, it is its major direction
the teacher is a major protagonist of perestroika. should he support us with conviction, sense and passion, perestroika will gain many new sincere advocates and fighters, successors to the revolutionary socialist cause
he must be relieved of petty patronage, suspicion towards his pursuits and findings must be lifted. he should be relieved of duties other than teaching, his time and strengyh must be released for the main thing
all obstacles and barriers in the way of innovation in pedagogics must be removed, decent material conditions must be created for the teacher's creative endeavor
(socialism and past mistakes)
over 70 years our party and people have been inspired by the ideas of socialism and have been building it. but because of external and internal causes we have been unable to fully realize the leninist principles of the new social system
this was seriously hampered by the cult of personality, the system of management by command and administration that formed in the thirties, bureaucratic, dogmatic and voluntarist aberration, arbitrariness, and late in the seventies _ early in the eighties _ lack of initiative and hindrances that have led to stagnation
these phenomena and what has remained of them and come down to the present should become things of the past
in this lies the answer to those who express their doubt if we are not retreating from socialism, from its foundations laid down by generations of soviet people
no, we do not retreat if only a step from socialism, from marxism-leninism, from everything that has been gained and created by the people. but we decisively reject dogmatic, bureaucratic and voluntarist legacy as it has nothing in common either with marxism-leninsim or with genuine socialism
free competition of minds is needed. our social thinking stands to gain from this. its prognosticating capacity will be enhanced and, hence, its ability to serve as a reliable basis for working out the party's policy will increase
(nationalities)
true internationalism, true friendship of peoples are possible only if there is deep respect for dignity, honor, culture, language and history of every people, extensive relations among them. we ought to facilitate in all ways the further broadening of contacts between national cultures, their mutual enrichment, their development and flourishing
soviet patriotism is the greatest of our values, any manifestations of nationalism and chauvinism are incompatible with it. nationalism in any form is blind, attempts at self-isolation lead only to a spiritual blind alley. the knowledge and understanding of the scope, grandeur and human specifics of socialist revolution, the struggle of the party and the people, full of truth and heroic spirit, and defense of socialist motherland feed the roots of soviet patriotism. here we approach a very important issue _ unification through revolution and soviet power of national honor and national heritage of every people and internationalism of socialist society
in short we should set to thoroughly tackle nationalities policy at the present stage _ in all areas, including theory and practice. this is the most fundamental, vital issue of our society. i think that one of the plenums of the central committee should be devoted to problems of nationalities policy
(politics)
we should firmly pursue the line of reinforcing the legal levers of perestroika, first of all to prevent the law on state enterprises and other legal instruments for economic reform from being diluted with all manner of departmental instructions and directives
the main problem in developing our political system is to create a mechanism of power and government with precisely regulated effective democratic control and corresponding legal procedures which would drastically diminish and even reduce to naught the element of chance in handling major political, state issues and preclude the possibility of subjectivity at all floors of our political system
it is necessary to achieve that decisions of principled importance be worked out and adopted with the people's active participation. this will correspond to our socialist democracy
priority should be given to cardinally changing the role of the soviets (governing councils) as the core of the political system of our society and its embodiment in state bodies
it is in the way the soviets are formed and function that the democratic principles of socialism must be realized in the first place
in a sense, we are talking today about the need to revive the soviet system of government in lenin's interpretation. we should make the soviets at all levels agencies of state authority and administration that will be really working, demonstrating initiative and enjoying full rights
we should take account in the soviets of the entire diversity of our country, including national features
and, of course, we should not bypass the supreme soviet of the u.s.s.r. we are to re-think its role so as to increase the effectiveness of its activites, starting from the presidium and full-scale parliamentary sessions and ending with the work of the commissions and individual deputies
the key issue of reform in the political system concerns delimiting the functions of party and state bodies
new york's highest court struck down a ban on loitering in subway, train or bus stations wednesday, unanimously ruling that the statute gives police too much leeway in deciding when people are breaking the law
the anti-loitering law prohibits people from sleeping in transportation facilities or staying there without giving authorities a ``satisfactory explanation'' of what they're doing
the new york court of appeals said in its 7-0 decision, ``such a generalized law fails to distinguish between conduct calculated to cause harm and conduct that is essentially innocent, thereby failing to give (a person) adequate notice of what conduct is prohibited.''
the court ruled in favor of two new york city men arrested in 1985 for loitering in separate incidents at penn station and the port authority bus terminal. both were charged with other crimes after their arrests
the court said the law gives too much latitude to a police officer to decide whether a person's explanation is satisfactory. that, judge vito titone wrote, makes the law unconstitutional
simply requiring a person to explain his actions also violates a citizen's right to remain silent when questioned by police, the court said
he (a suspect) is faced with the choice of either forgoing his constitutional right to remain silent in the hope that his explanation will satisfy that particular law enforcement official, or invoking his constitutional right to remain silent and being arrested,'' vitone wrote
barbara sheehan, who argued the case for the district attorney's office, said wednesday she would withhold comment on the decision until she has a chance to read it
michele maxian, a legal aid attorney who represented the two men arrested for loitering, said the district attorney's office argued that overturning the law would make train stations and the port authority terminal havens for the homeless
but if the law is no good, lawyers can't worry about the unsavory impact of striking it down, she said
this decision is for ordinary people,'' she said. ``it says that you can be in the port authority terminal and not be subject to the whim of a transit police officer as to whether you have the right to be there.''
police still have plenty of ways to protect people from crimes, maxian said, citing laws against begging, trespassing and disorderly conduct. she said police often used the loitering statute to arrest people they suspected of drug activities when they hadn't seen them engaged in actual criminal behavior
police are still going to be able to arrest people for doing crimes,'' she said, ``but they can't just arrest people for being suspicious.''
the court of appeals decision' upheld previous determinations in the cases by the state supreme court and the appellate division of state supreme court, two lower state courts
a record-breaking mess and fewer arrests were two measures of success for what may have been new orleans' biggest mardi gras. but another, grimmer statistic _ three deaths _ dimmed the carnival afterglow
carnival season begins each jan. 6 and builds to a raucous climax on mardi gras, french for fat tuesday, the day before the start of the christian lenten season
police started keeping track of arrests feb. 5, the day of the first major parades. and sanitation crews started weighing the morning-after garbage the next day
while some people use the intensity of their hangovers to gauge how much fun they had, cecil macfarland uses the weight of the garbage his sanitation crews pick up during the 12-day parade season to judge mardi gras' success
we haven't finished that,'' macfarland said when asked if he had totalled up the tonnage yet. ``it's gonna take me another three days.''
macfarland said close to 2,000 tons of garbage already had been collected by noon wednesday
we think we may pass last year's record breaker of 2,001 tons,'' he said
although garbage was up, arrests were down. police capt. john hughes said there were 1,621 arrests for various offenses. a year ago it was 1,948 and two years ago it was 2,072, hughes said. he attributed the declining numbers to ``people behaving themselves.''
although police say exact crowd estimates are difficult to make, veteran officers said tuesday's crowds within the city limits were among the largest they've seen and likely surpassed the million mark. that was good economic news for a city experiencing hard times; a recent university of new orleans study indicates that a good carnival crowd can pump as much as $275 million into the economy
while crowds were generally well behaved, getting too close to moving carnival vehicles cost two lives
witnesses at a parade in suburban jefferson parish said 11-year-old michael dupree darted under a decorated truck to grab carnival trinkets tossed by riders and was crushed by the wheels of the slow-moving vehicle. he had grabbed items that had landed under other parade vehicles and had been warned by deputies and his sister to stay clear of the vehicles, witnesses said
in a separate incident in new orleans, a man ran into traffic after a paade and tried to hop aboard a ``truck float'' that was leaving the city. he fell beneath the wheels of the tractor-trailer rig. his identity had not been confirmed wednesday afternoon
the area had not recorded such parade-related deaths since 1983
another apparent fatality occurred when an officer with the mississippi river bridge police assigned to help control mardi gras crowds on a ferry slipped into the river as he helped pull aboard a woman who had fallen off the vessel. he disappeared in the water. bottle cap</head>
a judge wednesday reduced the award to an 83-year-old woman struck in the eye by a soda bottle cap from $10.5 million granted by a jury to $375,000
third district judge kenneth rigtrup said that jurors were ``inflamed with passion'' when they recently made the award to mae l. roberts of holladay
the award of $10 million appears to be disproportionate and unreasonable,'' rigtrup said at a post-trial hearing. he awarded $75,000 in compensatory and $300,000 in punitive damages
roberts was struck in the eye when an aluminum twist cap blew off a 7-up bottle she was opening. as a result of the injury, the sight in roberts' left eye was impaired
rigtrup said roberts could accept his judgment, request a new trial within 15 days or appeal the decision
although there was no evidence that roberts' means of support was damaged by the accident, the judge said, 7-up's actions warranted a judgment for significant injury to her eye
the company knew of the potential danger caused by the bottle caps since the late 1960s and has ``irresponsibly'' not remedied the problem, rigtrup said
in arguing for 7-up, robert henderson said new owners and management are concerned about the bottle cap problem and have taken steps to address the issue, but solutions do not come swiftly
he said between 1986 and 1988 the company knew of only one incident in which someone was injured with a bottle cap
henderson acknowledged 7-up is partly to blame for the accident, but the fact that roberts' was attempting to open the bottle with pliers shows that she also was at fault
defense attorney colin king said he will discuss the possibility of an appeal and said his ``spunky'' client just may seek a new trial, despite her age
i'm as shocked about the judge's decision as i was with 7-up's refusal to adjust the problem (caused by unsafe bottle caps),'' roberts said. ``this is a sad day for consumers.''
solidarity leader lech walesa and three aides will apply to travel to australia next month to attend an international trade union meeting, a spokesman for the banned polish union said wednesday
spokesman janusz onyszkiewicz said walesa has been invited to melbourne on march 14-18 to attend the world congress of the international confederation of free trade unions
the invitation was extended by the australian confederation of trade unions, onyszkiewicz said
contacted at home in gdansk, walesa said he received the invitation and would like to make the trip, but declined further comment
walesa, who won the nobel peace prize in 1983, has not left poland since the union was declared illegal after the 1981 imposition of martial law. he once applied for a passport to travel abroad but did not receive it for ``technical reasons,'' walesa said
onyszkiewicz said walesa would complete his passport application for the australian trip very soon, but the spokesman said he was not optimistic it would be granted
three other solidarity leaders also hope to make the trip, said onyszkiewicz. they are bogdan lis, wladyslaw frasyniuk and bronislaw geremek
actor matthew broderick, who was fined the equivalent of $175 for his role in a fatal car crash in northern ireland, issued a statement wednesday saying he was pleased that a charge of reckless driving against him had been dismissed
the court decision, reached monday in enniskillen, has been denounced as a travesty by john gallagher, whose wife, anna, 28, and mother-in-law, margaret doherty, 60, were killed in the crash aug. 5
broderick suffered a broken leg in the crash and his passenger, actress jennifer grey, was not hurt
broderick remained in new york while a magistrate fined him for careless driving. he was originally chared with reckless driving
i'm glad the court decided that there was no basis for charging me with reckless driving,'' broderick's statement said. ``there was never any evidence for that charge. they also determined that the details of the accident will never be fully known. however it happened, it was a tragedy.''
publicist wendy morris said broderick planned to try to speak with the victims' family, ``but he doesn't think now is the right time.''
she said broderick had written the family but did not know whether he received an answer
federal regulators on thursday ordered an immediate suspension of the use of an industrial device which has leaked tiny particles of radioactive polonium at plants around the nation
the nuclear regulatory commission also ordered the 3m corp. to recall for inspection all 45,000 of the suspect devices, ionizing air guns used to control static electricity and remove dust from product containers
robert bernero, deputy director of the nrc's office of nuclear materials safety, said that of 828 plants inspected so far, ``detectable'' _ though virtually harmless _ contamination had been found at 118 sites. of those, he identified 39 plants where the radiation exceeded the reportable limit of .005 microcuries
this is an incomplete list,'' said bernero. ``it changes daily.''
last week, the nrc issued successive recalls of particular 3m models used in the food, beverage, cosmetic and drug industries, involving about 2,500 units. the latest order affects all industries and applies to all the devices made since they were first marketed in 1965
echoing earlier reports, nrc and food and drug administration officials said wednesday they still have no evidence that the faulty devices have posed any health hazard, either to workers at plants where radioactive contamination was found or to consumers of the products made at those facilities
bernero said in more than 1,000 tests of product samples, there was only once instance in which radiation was detected, involving a food supplement made by ross laboratories of altavista, va. in that case, the amount was so low it could have involved naturally occuring radiation, he said
but he cited another case, involving moto photo of north dartmouth, mass., where he expressed greater concern about what the inspectors don't know, rather than what they found. that facility is in a shopping mall, he said, and how much of the leaked radioactive material ``might have been tracked out into the mall is just unknown.''
nrc chairman lando zech said the suspension and broadened recall order was necessary in light of the growing list of plants where inspectors found the devices had failed, leaking microscopic ceramic spheres containing polonium 210, which emits a weak form of radiation incapable of penetrating the skin but which could prove harmful if ingested in sufficient amounts
fda administrator frank young said ``we're doing this to ensure there's not the rare gun out there that's leaking a lot more than anything we've found so far.''
ted l. pickens, a 3m spokesman, said ``we're certainly going to comply'' with the order. ``in this business you want to react with integrity and ensure confidence,'' he said. at the same time, pickens underscored the findings by federal officials that no health hazard appears involved
pickens declined to estimate what the recall and inspection order would cost the company, but said it would have no major effect on its overall treasury
polonium 210, a naturally occuring decay product of radium, emits alpha rays too weak to penetrate the skin. though it could prove a health threat if inhaled or swallowed in sufficient amounts, authorities say the protective ceramic covering on the material used in the 3m guns should preclude that danger. they say the particles are too heavy to be inhaled, and the leaked material in most cases fell harmlessly to the floor. even if ingested, the shell, if intact, would pass through the body without harm in two to four days, they say
however, young and others have expressed concern that some of the shell could be crushed or cracked, allowing more radiation to escape. young said that if one of the particles were absorbed, it would yield about 4 rem of radiation. by comparison, the average cigarette smoker absorbs about 6 rem of polonium radiation in a year
bernero said nrc investigators had found evidence in internal 3m records that from 0.04 percent to 0.9 percent of the guns, depending on the model, were faulty, even though the company reported far lower failure rates
by late last week, the government had identified 28 plants were contamination was found. the facilities just added to that list are:
ford motor co.'s paint plant at utica, mich.; the dial corp. microwave lunch packaging plant at ft. madison, iowa; the pro corp., of florence, mass., maker of plastic cases for computers; the k-mart film processing plant at garland, texas; the micro technology electronic chips plant at boise, idaho; miller container of milan, ill.; mclaughlin body co. of east moline, ill.; super photo of new orleans, and moto photo and ross laboratories. quotes, details, gorbachev call for political reforms at june conference. no pickup</note>
communist party leaders thursday dropped boris n. yeltsin, the outspoken former moscow party chief, from the ruling politburo and promoted officials charged with reforming economic planning and party personnel
soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev, in a speech to the communist party central committee, also said a party conference in june would be called on to adopt major political reforms ensuring the rule of law over personal will
he said the central committee should devote a future session to the problems of the country's more than 100 nationalities. ethnic groups in the baltic republics and elsewhere have been agitating for greater autonomy or outright independence
the official tass news agency announced the leadership changes at the end of a two-day meeting of about 300 members of the policy-making central committee in moscow. the committee also adopted major educational reforms
the central committee ``freed comrade b.n. yeltsin from his duties as a candidate member of the politburo,'' tass said
georgy razumovsky, 52, and yuri d. maslyukov, 50, were named candidates, or non-voting members of the politburo
for the past two years, razumovskya, a gorbachev protege, has been a secretary of the central committee in charge of appointing party personnel. maslyukov was named this month to head the state planning committee, the government body in charge of planning the state-run economy
yeltsin supported gorbachev's policy of greater openness but his criticism apparently went farther than gorbachev was willing to allow
on nov 11, gorbachev ousted the strapping, 57-year-old yeltsin from his position as moscow party leader. at the last meeting of the central committee, on oct. 21, yeltsin criticized the pace of reform and the leadership style of the communist party. he had offered to quit
yeltsin was transferred to first deputy director of the state construction committee, with the rank of government minister
yeltsin's fate was seen as a test by many in moscow of how far gorbachev would carry his policy of allowing greater openness and differences of opinion
gorbachev said last january it was a ``delusion'' to view yeltsin's dismissal as a blow to his restructuring policies. he said yeltsin was overly ambitious
the soviet leader gave the clearest indication yet of the problems he wants to attack at the party conference, the first since the 1940s
he said he intends to reform, not replace, the present system, and that the dominance of the communist party is not in question
the main problem in developing our political system is to create a mechanism of power and government ... which would drastically diminish and even reduce to naught the element of chance in handling major political, state issues and preclude the possibility of subjectivity at all `floors' of our political system,'' he said
subjectivity'' was an apparent reference to the personal wills of earlier soviet leaders such as dictator josef v. stalin and nikita s. khrushchev
gorbachev called for strengthening the electoral system, local governing councils and the supreme soviet, the nominal parliament. he called for a sharper distinction between the role of government organizations and party groups, but provided no details
the central committee, the only body empowered to make changes in the ruling politburo, did not touch the list of 13 full voting politburo members
razumovsky's appointment was a clear victory for gorbachev
gorbachev must have an ally in charge of appointing party personnel in order to overcome the resistance to his reforms in many layers of the vast soviet bureaucracy
maslyukov, a defense industry expert, replaced nikolai v. talyzin, who had been criticized by gorbachev. talyzin was shunted to chairmanship of a little-known government commission, but kept his candidate status on the politburo
oleg d. baklanov, 55, minister of general machine building, was chosen to become a secretary of the central committee
gorbachev told the central committee the country faces a ``most serious financial problem.''
he said a drop in world commodity prices and the loss of income from alcohol sales due to his campaign against drunkenness had hurt the soviet economy. the soviet union depends on oil and natural gas for a substantial percentage of its export income
he said the top priority is improving food, housing and consumer goods, and said his policies have made progress in those areas
gorbachev rejected claims that his reforms are pulling the soviet union away from socialism. at the same time, he defended his policy of ``glasnost'' or greater openness, and criticized the mistakes of former leaders stalin, khrushchev and leonid i. brezhnev
gorbachev reiterated soviet criticism of u.s. conservatives and some european leaders for urging the western alliance to upgrade its weapons systems to make up for u.s. missiles that will be withdrawn from europe
regarding afghanistan, gorbachev said the war there long had a ``direct and deep impact on the feelings of soviet people.'' he said he had been seeking a way out of afghanistan since he took power almost three years ago
gorbachev said feb. 8 the estimated 115,000 soviet soldiers could be pulled out in a 10-month period beginning may 15 if u.n.-sponsored talks can reach an agreement. bridges</head>
heart transplantation probably has reached its peak because of a nationwide shortage of donor organs, and that may force doctors to re-evaluate the use of temporary artificial hearts, prominent surgeons said thursday
because of complications related to their long-term use, artificial hearts have been used in the past few years strictly to keep patients alive pending the receipt of donor hearts
but at an opening-day session of a conference on thoracic organ transplantation, surgeons discussed the possibility that use of the devices as bridges may have to be reconsidered
i think the artificial heart business and circulatory support business is going to become more esoteric until such time as we have a (totally implantable) permanent device to put in,'' said dr. jack g. copeland of the university of arizona heart center, a co-sponsor of the conference with the minneapolis heart institute
copeland said using a bridge to transplant ``is much less appealing in my mind, with the donor shortage, and many patients sitting around waiting would be better candidates for transplant if there's one organ available and too many waiting for it. so i think it's going to be less common.''
nearly 200 surgeons and other medical practitioners attended the opening session, which covered a range of topics on heart, heart-lung and lung transplantation
one of them, dr. william a. baumgartner of johns hopkins university, cited a recent study predicting a limit of about 1,500 heart donors annually and said, ``i think that we have proabably reached the zenith of heart transplant donors, at least for the forseeable future.''
baumgartner last year performed a ``domino donor'' transplant, implanting a heart and lung into a cystic fibrosis patient whose own heart was transplanted into a second patient. the first patient received organs donated by a brain-dead patient
dr. frazier eales of the minneapolis heart institute said, ``we dilute the credibility of our programs if we have 100 people on the waiting list and all we can do is 15 or 20 transplants a year,''
a number of surgeons said there has been a falloff in the number of heart transplants performed so far in 1988 compared with 1987, but could give no explanation
we're used to seeing a great deal of variation,'' eales said. ``but this has been prolonged and it's evidently been nationwide.''
dr. lyle d. joyce, a cardiovascular surgeon from the minneapolis center and an expert on the jarvik artificial heart, while agreeing the donor shortage is a ``real problem,'' said he disagreed with the idea that ``perhaps we shouldn't even consider using the device as a bridge to transplant.''
we are at a point in the development of these devices that we need some experience and there is a price we're going to have to pay,'' including losing some patients, he said
he said if not for having moved ahead with such experimental implants as barney clark's, ``i would daresay that there would be no research going on on a national scale today to develop a total artificial heart.''
but he added that the national institutes of health has provided $20 million a year for such development, and predicted a totally implantable device ``in the near future.''
joyce, who worked with dr. william devries in the early permanent jarvik implants, said the time may be approaching for a return to permanent artificial hearts
he said the donor shortage likely will force transplant programs to reject older patients as less-than-perfect candidates, in turn again making available a pool of candidates for permanent implants
the house on wednesday balked at a senate plan to outlaw dial-a-porn telephone services after some members raised constitutional questions and said they had a better way to keep children from calling
the lawmakers voted 382-0 to instruct negotiators on an omnibus education bill _ one that now includes the senate ban _ to agree on new provisions aimed at solving the dial-a-porn problem short of an outright ban
the alternative, pressed by some conservatives, would have been to instruct the negotiators to accept the ban. but others argued it would be vulnerable to court challenges based on the right to free speech
rep. edward markey, d-mass., said the vote paved the way for a solution involving access codes that would prevent children from calling the pornographic toll numbers unless their subscriber parents gave them the code
there is uniform concern in the house over this problem. we want to get a bipartisan solution,'' said markey, chairman of the energy and commerce subcommittee on communications
sponsors of the successful motion said they didn't want to take the risk that the negotiators would drop the whole issue because the senate ban seemed unconstitutional. and they said they didn't want the negotiators to accept a plan that would result in an immediate court challenge and injunction
it would be litigated for years before we got a solution,'' said rep. thomas bliley, r-va. ``and maybe we would get to one we sought, and maybe we wouldn't.''
bliley said the purveyors of dial-a-porn might well go to court anyway, even over access codes, but their cases would be severely weakened without the first amendment grounds
sen. jesse helms, r-s.c., sponsored the dial-a-porn ban last december as an amendment to an education improvement act renewing and expanding federal programs for elementary and secondary school students
the senate approved the helms measure 98-0 despite some senators' reservations about its constitutionality and the american civil liberties union's prediction that it would be challenged if it became law
rep. john dingell, d-mich., chairman of the energy and commerce committee and of the house's negotiating team, praised the house action wednesday and promised that ``we will go as far as we can constitutionally to bring to a halt this obnoxious practice.''
that was not enough for some conservatives, who said neither children nor adults should have access to pornographic messages via their telephones
we should be voting here today to eliminate dial-a-porn from the culture of america,'' said rep. william dannemeyer, r-calif. he tried and failed to win a vote on instructing the negotiators to accept the senate ban
a decline in the amount of corn readily available to the market is one reason feed grain prices have edged higher this winter, the agriculture department said wednesday
the department's commodity credit corp. is estimated to have around 1.75 billion bushels of corn in its inventory for 1987-88, compared with 1.44 billion bushels last season
in addition, farmers have large quantities of corn still under price support loan _ which cannot be sold on the market or used until the loans are settled. if the loans aren't repaid, the grain winds up in ccc inventories
grain also is held in storage under the ``farmer-owned reserve'' program, or for, and cannot be released until prices rise to specified levels
a key factor in this year's stronger corn and sorghum prices is the commitment of a larger share of the 1987-88 supply to ccc inventory, for and regular ccc crop loans, and shrinking uncommitted stocks,'' the department's economic research service said in an outlook report
corn prices have been edging upward in expectation that cash redemptions from loans will be necessary to meet market demands,'' the report said. ``corn prices received by farmers are expected to average $1.65 to $1.85 a bushel, up from $1.50 in 1986-87.''
sorghum prices are projected at $1.50 to $1.70 per bushel, compared with an average of $1.37 in the 1986-87 season
israel and egypt are slated to receive a combined total of $5.3 billion in economic and military aid commitments in fiscal 1989 out of a global total of $14.3 billion, the state department said thursday
deputy secretary of state john whitehead told a news briefing that even though the request to congress for spending authority on foreign assistance is up about $200 million from the 1988 allocation, many pressing needs will remain unmet
it is difficult to operate a foreign policy with such limited funds,'' whitehead said, noting that the overall international affairs budget has dropped by some 30 per cent since 1985
israel and egypt have been given the highest priority in the foreign assistance allocations for years, and 1989 will be no exception. israel is scheduled to receive commitments for $1.2 billion in economic aid and $1.8 billion in military aid while the figures for egypt are $815 million and $1.3 billion respectively
the $14.3 billion proposed by the administration would not represent actual 1989 outlays, because some of the money will be spent on projects extending over several years. the outlay figure is expected to be several billion less than the $14.3 billion request
a u.s. official said that of the $1.3 billion in military aid proposed for egypt, only a few million would actually be spent next year and the remainder would be in the pipeline for use in future years. the same holds true for the economic aid program although the percentage of cash outlays are somewhat higher compared with the military program for egypt
meanwhile, the more than 40 aid recipients in sub-saharan africa _ the world's poorest region _ are due to receive a combined total of $733 million in economic assistance commitments
whitehead said the high assistance levels for israel and egypt are based on need, their decision to make peace a decade ago and the wishes of the congress
there is very little sympathy in congress for a reduction,'' whitehead said
he noted that, unlike past years, the global totals are likely to receive congressional approval because they had been agreed to by the congressional leadership late last year
in the past, however, congress has earmarked specific amounts for countries it favors, forcing the administraion to make adjustments in the figures for other countries
the administration has strongly opposed congressional earmarkings and whitehead expressed hope that lawmakers will exercise restraint when they take up the 1989 proposals
firm earmarkings ... are not a good way to run a railroad,'' whitehead said
among the few surprises in the proposed country-by-country allocations was the elimination of the program for ireland, which is receiving $35 million in commitments during the current year
whitehead said the decision to drop ireland from the list was based on the perception that the united states ``does not receive a real return'' on its investment
irish diplomatic sources expressed hope that congress will reinstate the funding
for the past three years, u.s. aid to ireland has been funneled through the international fund for ireland, in which several countries make contributions. the bulk of the funds have gone for the reconstruction of northern ireland, with a small amount earmarked for border counties in the irish republic
the fund was set up in 1986 for a three-year period but the irish sources, insisting on anonymity, said a fourth year of allocations had not been ruled out
we understand the view of the state department that they don't envisage funding beyond the third year, but the matter has to be considered by congress where there is strong support for the international fund,'' an irish diplomat said
the foreign assistance program also:
__calls for a $98 million increase in commitments for turkey to $623.5 million. greece, turkey's principal rival, would receive a $7 million increase
__reinstates military grant assistance to eight latin american countries which have been cut out of the 1988 program. all told, latin american countries would receive $90 million more in economic assistance commitments and $55 million more in military assistance commitments than they have at present
__earmarks $32.4 million in assistance commitments _ almost all economic _ to haiti even though aid to that country was suspended late last year when the military abrogated election laws. whitehead said the proposed aid to haiti would be allocated only if there is progress toward democracy
mario biaggi, 70, came to washington 20 years ago as a hero new york city cop, rising above the poverty of a harlem tenement to the lofty halls of congress
now, he is fighting expulsion from the house
on thursday, the house ethics committee said it would recommend that biaggi be ousted, a rare step. he is charged with violating the house's rules for the conduct of a congressman
the 10-term congressman says he won't give up his seat without a fight. but the development climaxes a yearlong decline for a once-respected lawmaker
the bronx democrat's troubles began with his indictments in two separate cases
the first came last march 16. biaggi was charged with accepting paid vacations in exchange for helping to steer government contracts toward coastal dry dock and repair, an ailing brooklyn shipyard
at his conviction last sept. 22, biaggi scoffed that he had been found guilty of ``tipping.'' but he wept two months later when the judge, calling the case ``a greek tragedy,'' sentenced biaggi to 2{ years in prison and a $500,000 fine
biaggi was forced to relinquish his two house subcommittee chairmanships
the second indictment came june 3, when biaggi was charged with bribery and rackeeteering in connection with wedtech, the now-infamous bronx military contractor. biaggi pleaded innocent and faces trial next month
when a cadre of house republicans threatened to challenge his right to vote. he has refrained from voting ever since
mario biaggi was born in a harlem tenement, the oldest of three sons of immigrants from italy. he shined shoes and delivered laundry to supplement the income of his father, a marble-setter, and his mother, a charwoman
after high school, he worked as a foreman in a braid factory until when he got a job as a mailman. he quit in 1942 to join the new york city police department
as a policeman, he earned a record 28 bravery citations in 23 years. he received the police medal of honor for valor after killing a gunman who jumped into a car with him and a friend in an apparent robbery attempt. he was wounded 10 times in the line of duty. to this day, he walks with a cane after being kicked by a runaway horse
in 1960, the dean of the new york law school, daniel gutman, heard biaggi speak at a dinner and was so impressed that he offered biaggi, by then a police detective, a full scholarship to study law
with gutman's help, biaggi obtained a dispensation from the american bar association waiving the requirement for a college degree. biaggi completed law school in 2{ years while on leave from his police duties
he retired from the police department in 1965 as a detective lieutenant and was granted a 75 percent disability pension
in 1966, he helped found a new york city law firm which now employs his son richard, who has also been indicted in the wedtech case
biaggi won election to congress in 1968 with 60 percent of the vote and has not faced serious political opposition in the past decade
combining a dedication to community service, support for federal spending for those in need, and outspokenness on such issues as soviet-jewish emigration and the conflict in northern ireland, biaggi won the loyalty of the large irish, italian and jewish blocs in his district
but in 1973, biaggi mounted a campaign for new york city mayor that nearly destroyed him politically
during the race, biaggi denied reports that he had taken the fifth amendment before a grand jury investigation allegations of payoffs to congressmen who sponsored certain immigration legislation. biaggi sued to get some, but not all, of the grand jury records made public. the idea backfired when the judge released all the minutes, proving that biaggi had lied and had taken the fifth
the internal revenue service then launched an investigation, and biaggi acknowledged that he had been questioned by another grand jury looking into whether a judge involved in a case tied to biaggi's law firm had been bribed
no charges were brought in either case
deputy chancellor alois mock, head of the party that backed kurt waldheim for the presidency, stuck by him thursday but the party itself did not make a statement of support after a leadership caucus
mock also is foreign minister of the coalition government, in which his conservative people's party is the junior partner of chancellor franz vranitzy's socialists
vranitzky has indicated waldheim should resign because of questions about his conduct as a german army lieutenant in the balkans during world war ii. other political leaders ranging from socialist to conservative have also suggested waldheim step down
opinion polls this week have shown declining support for the president, who on monday rejected demands that he resign because of the report a government-appointed commission of historians prpared on his war service
it said he was in ``close proximity'' to nazi atrocities, knew of them and did nothing to stop them. the historians said they found no proof that waldheim committed war crimes, but they left the question of guilt open
waldheim, now 69, has consistently denied wrongdoing since allegations about his war service first appeared in march 1986 during the presidential campaign
the government named the international panel of historians at waldheim's request in september, after the united states put the former u.n. secretary-general on a ``watch list'' of undesirable aliens that barred him from the country
after the party leadership caucus thursday, mock said waldheim's decision to stay in office ``should be respected by all democrats.''
a source who attended the meeting said privately that prominent conservatives other than mock believe waldheim must go. a statement issued after the meeting did not explicitly declare people's party support for waldheim, indicating disagreement among its leaders
economics minister robert graf, a conservative who has indicated waldheim should resign, said he did not attend the party meeting. asked how austria's political crisis should be solved, he told the associated press: ``the decision lies with the president.''
mock would not tell reporters whether waldheim was criticized in the meeting. he urged political parties to quit discussing the matter, contending that more talk would ``endanger trust in political institutions.''
he accused the state radio-television monopoly orf of ``brainwashing'' of the public against waldheim
the reporting of orf is scandalous ... one-sided and unobjective,'' he said. mock would not cite cases, but said in response to questions: ``there is a whole list of things where brainwashing of the public has been going on for weeks.''
thaddeus podgorski, head of the network, issued a statement saying the reporting conformed with regulations governing broadcasting
johannes kunz, who is in charge of information at orf, issued a statement later saying: ``the orf correspondents were expressly ordered to include in their reports especially reactions positive for the president. it does not lie within the responsibility of orf that foreign reactions were overwhelmingly negative.''
the government rejected a call by israeli's parliament for waldheim to be forced from office and tried for war crimes. the foreign ministry expressed ``austria's indignation'' over the resolution passed unanimously by the knesset on tuesday
vranitzky said in rejecting the resolution that ``wholesale judgments and accusations of that kind'' would not serve anyone. responsibility</head> with u.s. denial of cia ties. picks up 5th graf pvs, the abduction ...</note>
moslem militiamen searched rain-drenched citrus groves and valley caves thursday for lt. col. william r. higgins, and their leaders threatened to go after his kidnappers unless the u.s. marine is freed soon
we want higgins back and we have no red line as far as his case is concerned,'' said daoud daoud of the moderate shiite militia amal, the dominant force around the ancient port of tyre
u.n. peacekeeping troops and about 1,500 amal militiamen virtually sealed off a 300-square-mile area
an anonymous telephone caller claimed responsibility for wednesday's abduction in the name of a previously unknown group. he claimed higgins, who commands u.n. truce observers in south lebanon, is a cia agent
u.s. state department spokesman charles redman denied thursday that higgins had any cia connections: ``there was a claim that lt. col. higgins was associated with the cia. that is not true.''
the abduction brings the number of foreign hostages in lebanon to 25, including nine americans. most are believed held by pro-iranian shiite extremists, whose main hezbollah militia has been challenging amal's dominance in south lebanon
an arabic-speaking man said in the telephone call to a western news agency in beirut that he represented the islamic revolutionary brigades, and declared:
william higgins has joined the hostages. he will only come out after he is tried on grounds that he is one of the directors of the cia in south lebanon. higgins is now out of beirut after he was brought out from the south.''
he said a statement and photograph of higgins would be released soon. there was no way to authenticate the claim
higgins, a 43-year-old native of danville, ky., heads the 76-member observer group attached to the u.n. interim force in lebanon, the peacekeeping force in south lebanon known as unifil. officers under his command represent 16 nations
daoud is military commander of amal, the shiite militia led by justice minister nabih berri. he said in south lebanon: ``we're capable of confronting the people who've carried out the abduction if need be, but i hope a quick, happy ending will be accomplished.''
he and senior aides told reporters they believed higgins and the captors still were in an area southeast of tyre, which is 50 miles south of beirut
timur goksel, spokesman for unifil, agreed. ``we do not have any reason to believe that he is out of the south,'' goksel said at headquarters in naqoura, just north of the israeli border
when higgins was seized, he was violating u.n. rules for travel by americans in dangerous areas, goksel said, but the colonel ``felt he couldn't abide by these restrictions. ... higgins felt that as chief, he should be out with his men and know what they are doing.''
american members of u.n. forces are restricted to the headquarters area and are permitted to travel in lebanon only with a u.n. military escort, he said
an amal spokesman, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said: ``despite heavy rain, the search has been completed in areas north and east of tyre. we are focusing now on wadi jilo southeast of tyre.''
wadi jilo, six miles southeast of tyre, is a stronghold of the iranian-backed hezbollah, or party of god
hezbollah is believed to be an umbrella for factions holding most of the captive foreigners. the hostage held longest is terry a. anderson, 40, chief middle east correspondent of the associated press, abducted march 16, 1985
higgins' father died thursday in louisville, ky., of congestive heart failure. the family learned of the abduction while trying notify the marine officer that william f. higgins was near death
daoud and his aides met at a lebanese army barracks in tyre with unifil officers led by lt. col. tor planting of finland to coordinate the search effort
we hope the kidnappers will have no chance of slipping out with their captive,'' the amal spokesman said
cars manned by plainclothes amal security men blocked roads along the litani river from the mediterranean coast to the slopes of mount hermon about 25 miles inland
uniformed militiamen with submachine guns and rocket-propelled grenade launchers patrolled a 12-mile stretch of coast from the qassmieh bridge north of tyre to the kidnap scene three miles south of the city, the spokesman said
our men are searching villages in an 800-square-kilometer (300-square- mile) area north, east and south of tyre,'' he said. ``u.n. troops block the southern exits of the region.''
berri has issued orders that ``no one sleeps until we get the man (higgins) back,'' the spokesman said, adding that amal is ``anxious to protect and safeguard unifil, regardless of the nationality of the peacekeepers. amal views higgins' abduction as a deliberate challenge.''
unifil operates in predominantly shiite areas frequently caught in the crossfire of israel's battles with palestinian guerrillas and shiite extremists loyal to iran
security sources said french u.n. officers had interviewed a lebanese bus driver who claimed he saw the abduction from a few yards away
the frenchmen have managed to draw a face sketch of the gunman the eyewitness says he saw pointing his pistol to higgins' head as he forced him into the kidnappers' car,'' one said
officials have said two gunmen in a volvo kidnapped higgins after blocking his car on a coastal highway
higgins was the third u.n official kidnapped in south lebanon in three weeks. the other two, a swede and norwegian of the u.n. relief and works agency, were seized feb. 5 near sidon, midway between tyre and beirut
world chess champion garri kasparov will join 31 leading chess masters to compete for the record $75,000 world blitz championship in saint john on friday and saturday
the event features a series of duels in which each player's thinking time will be limited to five minutes per game
its going to be outrageous. it will vanquish once and for all the idea that chess is a boring game,'' said jay whitehead, a 26-year-old international master from san francisco
the series of four game knockouts will culminate saturday in a six-game grand finale
most experts are predicting a clash between kasparov and his archrival, fellow soviet anatoly karpov
it would be their first meeting since their world title duel ended in a 12-12 tie in seville, spain, last december, leaving kasparov as champion
other observers suggest the frantic pace of the games will increase the likelihood of an american or west european grandmaster's pulling off a giant-killing victory
while the 10-week seville contest featured a total prize fund of $1.85 million, the victor in saint john will walk away with $37,500 for four hours work, the highest first prize ever in a single tournament
it's a completely different kind of chess, but i think it's very exciting for the public. you need to concentrate for every second because of the speed,'' said karpov, 36, at a news conference thursday
spectators will be able to watch the play unfold using a special, british- made computer called an intelligent chess display
using sensors in the board and pieces, the moves will be instantaneously transmitted onto video screens throughout the hall
such events are part of the future of chess, they are like an electric shock,'' the 24-year-old titleholder told the associated press. ``of course, this kind of contest wouldn't have been possible without the new technology,'' kasparov added
espn, the sports cable network based in atlanta, plans to broadcast three one-hour programs on the event
we are trying to use the same broadcast technology used in other sports, like split screens and extra close-ups, with the exception of slow motion replays,'' said peter allies, an executive producer with toronto-based tier one communications, which is producing the programs
a 12-man world swift championship, played under similar conditions last april in brussels, belgium, was won by kasparov. dutch grandmaster jan timman came in second, with karpov third
players reached this final through qualifiers held earlier in new york, philadelphia, biel, switzerland and in saint john, a city of 125,000 on canada's eastern seaboard
the blitz championship is the showcase finale of the world chess festival, billed as the greatest chess spectacular ever held in north america
the monthlong event has attracted more than 700 players from 26 countries
it will be kasparov's first appearance in north america
on sunday, the titlist will travel with his british manager, andrew page, to new york for a four-day tour, including a display at a school in the city's poor south bronx district and an exhibition match against celebrities
the blitz is the kind of event to increase the popularity of the game. i hope my visit will help to promote chess throughout the united states,'' kasparov said
a federal judge on wednesday upheld the government's refusal to grant a patent for an electrical motor which its inventor claims produces a net gain of energy but whose critics say violates a basic law of physics
u.s. district judge thomas penfield jackson found there was no valid scientific evidence to support inventor joseph w. newman's claims that his device produced more energy than it consumed
jackson made his ruling on a 5-year-old lawsuit against the u.s. patent and trade office, which had refused to grant a patent after examiners determined that the machine did not do what newman claimed it could do
the patent office, which didn't conduct tests, ruled that newman was seeking a patent for a perpetual motion machine, a concept that violates the second law of thermodynamics
the law of physics states that in any mechanical process some energy is inevitably lost, usually in the form of heat, so that output cannot exceed the input of energy
the judge said newman, an inventor from lucedale, miss., produced evidence that was ``anecdotal and largely qualitative rather than quantified measured data'' to support his theory
jackson also found that newman failed to rebut the findings of the national bureau of standards, which tested the machine and found ``the device did not deliver more energy than it used.''
newman claims that his machine, which largely resembles an ordinary electric motor except for an unusually large coil of wire, converts what he calls ``gyroscopic particles'' into energy
the 51-year-old inventor has demonstrated his device to a senate subcommittee and to news reporters in several cities
jackson found that ``aside from newman's own somewhat metaphysical writings which appear at multiple points throughout his patent application there is no evidence whatsoever... from which to find the existence of such `gyroscopic particles,' their observable (or measurable) `release' or `reaction' within the device.''
newman and his attorney, john flannery, said they expected to file an appeal of jackson's decision to the u.s. circuit court of appeals here
the procedure in the patent office was unfair and we think the testing procedure was unfair,'' flannery said, referring to the tests conducted two years ago by the national bureau of standards
flannery contended that jackson had improperly rejected the findings of former patent commissioner william schuyler, a court-appointed expert, who reported there was clear evidence that newman's device worked
we have an expert... who agrees with our view and we have a district court judge's opinion that differs with that. so i think we will have to go the court of appeals for a tie-breaker,'' flannery said
newman accused jackson and patent officials of bias, charging they knew his invention would hurt oil companies
i am pleased the judge has finally ruled because i am counting on getting up to the higher court,'' newman said. but ``i don't expect any justice from those people.''
the often acrimonious court battle included an incident in 1986 when flannery was cited for contempt of court for pressing newman's claim that jackson recuse himself because he was appointed to the federal bench by president reagan
i have had just about enough of your insolence in this case,'' the judge told flannery. jackson later withdrew the contempt citation
in another sign of eroding support for the austrian president, a leading industrialist has suggested that kurt waldheim step down because of the controversy over his world war ii record
herbert krejci, general secretary of the austrian industrialists association, said ``the fate of the country is even more important than the office'' of president
vice chancellor alois mock, at a news conference wednesday, rejected as ``not important'' krecji's remarks, made a day earlier on national television. krejci is a member of the conservative people's party, which is headed by mock and which backed waldheim for president in 1986
the chancellor runs the government and the presidency is a largely ceremonial post in austria. the socialists are the senior partner in the coalition government with the people's party
the national leadership of the people's party has scheduled a meeting thursday at which it is expected to discuss the waldheim case
last week, a commission of historians questioned waldheim's moral integrity, saying he was ``in close proximity'' to nazi atrocities when he served as a lieutenant in the german army during world war ii, but did nothing about them
though the panel said it found no evidence waldheim had committed war crimes, it concluded he tried to cover up his involvement in the war, which was disclosed nearly two years ago during the presidential campaign
waldheim, 69, a former u.n. secretary-general, has said he is innocent of wrongdoing and has refused to resign
the tabloid kurier, which represents the conservative party's relatively liberal economic and business wing, has said at least twice in the past week that the party is weighing a plan to put more pressure on waldheim to resign
it did not describe the plan
the socialists have said that if waldheim steps down, they are willing to work with the conservatives to choose a replacement candidate agreeable to both parties
meanwhile, a group of prominent austrian intellectuals and liberals vowed to hold weekly demonstrations against waldheim until march, when the country marks the 50th anniversary of hitler's annexation of austria
the discord in the coalition over the waldheim affair has led to increased discussion of the possibility of new parliamentary elections. mock and heinrich keller, the socialist party secretary, said wednesday they opposed new elections. 3rd graf, `i would ...'</note>
a prominent forensic psychiatrist testifying thursday in a $22.5 million lawsuit brought against soldier of fortune by a murder victim's family said a classified ad in the magazine led to the slaying
in my opinion, the advertisement was a proximate cause of death for sandra black,'' said dr. park dietz
dietz, who headed the forensic team that evaluated john hinckley after he shot president reagan in 1981, said soldier of fortune was the magazine of choice for people who looked through its classifieds for people willing to engage in illegal activity
in earlier testimony thursday, soldier of fortune publisher robert k. brown said he was unaware of news reports linking classified ads in the magazine to criminal acts before a killer was hired through the ads
brown, in a second day of testimony in federal court, said if he had known of the reports he might have eliminated the advertisements
i would have conducted an investigation to see if it was an aberration or a pattern,'' he said. ``if we could have developed a pattern, then i would have discontinued the ads.''
a texas family is accusing the colorado-based magazine of negligence for running an ad that is linked to a woman's 1985 slaying. the magazine bills itself as the journal of professional adventurers
the ad placed by john wayne hearn brought him together with robert black and led to the murder-for-hire of black's wife, sandra, of bryan
black is on death row for paying hearn $10,000 to carry out the killing. hearn is serving three life terms for murder
marjorie einmann, mrs. black's mother, and gary black, the victim's 18-year-old son, are seeking $2.5 million in actual damages and $20 million in punitive damages
attorneys for the magazine do not dispute the ad brought hearn and black together, but insist brown had no way of knowing the ad was for illegal activity
hearn's ad, which appeared in four issues in late 1984, sought marine and vietnam veterans and weapons specialists with jungle warfare expertise for ``high-risk assignments'' in the united states or overseas
hearn said in a deposition read into testimony wednesday that his ad was intended to attract bodyguard and security work. he said it brought responses from people looking for help with bombings, assaults, jail breaks and killings
brown said he had not read in denver-area newspapers about an extortion indictment linking the magazine's ads in may 1984 to a so-called ``collection agency'' allegedly involved in kidnap, extortion and death threats
numerous stories about the extortion ring were run in 1984, but brown said he may have been out of the area at the time or didn't see them
brown also denied thursday that an advertising policy adopted in may 1984 was in response to police inquiries about crimes that may have been linked to classified ads in the magazine
the policy established for the first time since the magazine began in 1975 a formal rejection procedure for classified ads
it was a matter of setting policy to preclude events that might happen,'' brown said. ``one of the motives was to upgrade the image of the magazine.''
the policy listed about a dozen reasons why a classified ad could be rejected, including any suggestion an ad would ``encourage illegal activity.''
brown acknowledged that continued publication of personal services ads had been discussed at the magazine for years and that he may have been the only person at soldier of fortune to favor their continuation
he has said that the magazine was aimed at vietnam veterans and that the classified ads were run as a source of employment for them
the arab league on thursday demanded an emergency session of the 159-nation u.n. general assembly to discuss u.s. plans to close the palestine liberation organization mission
the 21-nation league wants the assembly to ``shield'' the plo's observer mission to the united nations, said a league spokesman, clovis maksoud
he was vague about how the assembly might accomplish this
we cannot recommend at this moment a specific course of action,'' he told reporters. but if an emergency session was held, it is expected the assembly would denounce the united states and say it violated the treaty under which it is host to the united nations
we are not seeking or eliciting a confrontation,'' maksoud insisted. ``we are seeking that the united states abide by its treaty obligations.''
the request came in a letter to east germany's ambassador, peter florin, who is president of the general assembly. florin is expected to approve the request, said diplomats, who spoke on condition of anonymity
the plo, which enjoys strong support at the united nations, and arab diplomats have said they may ask the assembly to move to geneva if the mission is closed
the state department had said the treaty obliged the united states to let the mission operate. but congress passed a law ordering the mission closed by march 22. the united states considers the plo a terrorist organization
attorney general edwin meese iii now must decide on whether to close the mission
reagan administration officials in washington, speaking on condition of anonymity, said thursday that meese was expected to announce his decision near the end of march. several congressmen have said meese assured them he would close the mission
maksoud said the arab league wants the assembly to begin its session no later than feb. 29
during its regular session, which ended in december, the assembly overwhelmingly passed a resolution calling on the united states to leave the plo mission alone. israel was the only country to vote against the measure and the united states abstained
maksoud said the united states could avoid a confrontation with the united nations if the law is repealed or if the administration refuses to enforce it
both possibilities seem unlikely. the legislation had strong support in both houses of congress and president reagan signed the measure last dec. 22, despite the state department's reservations
the u.n. mission is the only plo office in the united states. the state department closed the plo information office in washington last year. pont calling bush</note>
former delaware gov. pete du pont abandoned his bid for the republican presidential nomination thursday after losing badly in iowa and new hampshire. ``you listened, considered and chose,'' he said. ``i could not have asked for more.''
du pont withdrew just six days after alexander haig gave up his gop candidacy, leaving four republicans in the 1988 race. former arizona gov. bruce babbitt dropped out earlier thursday, leaving six democrats
du pont, 53, a former congressman and state legislator as well as governor, is a great-great grandson of the founder of the du pont co. despite his efforts and the familiarity of his name, his candidacy never attracted widespread support in the 17 months after he announced his presidential plans
he had hoped to make himself the conservative alternative to gop front-runners george bush and bob dole, but he finished far down in the iowa caucuses and new hampshire primary
in new hampshire on tuesday, he won his only two delegates, finishing a distant fourth behind conservative rep. jack kemp though slightly ahead of former television evangelist pat robertson
he said thursday he wouldn't endorse another candidate immediately
bush's chief of staff, craig fuller, told reporters accompanying the vice president to texas that bush had received a call from du pont on air force two
fuller described the conversation as ``very friendly'' and quoted bush as telling the former delaware governor: ``pete, i've been there myself. barbara and i wish you and your family the very best.''
fuller described the rest of the 10-minute conversation as ``private'' although he said the two voiced ``a general willingness to talk at some time in the future.''
asked what they would talk about, fuller said it would involve the possibility of du pont endorsing bush, saying ``it's an interest we would have. ... i believe whe phone call was simply to let the vice president know he was withdrawing from the race.''
in his withdrawal announcement _ made to about 100 supporters, many wearing ``pete 1992'' stickers _ du pont said, ``today our campaign lowers its flag, but our crusade continues to march.''
you have given me the opportunity of a lifetime,'' he said, thanking his supporters for their efforts in his behalf
in america we do not promise that everyone wins, only that everyone has the opportunity to try. you have given me the opportunity,'' he said
du pont took note of his controversial stands on such issues as mandatory drug testing for high school students and elimination of farm subsidies
we have moved those challenges forward to the center of the debate; they are urgent, they are real, they will not disappear,'' he said. ``neither will our efforts to address them. all of us can pause to catch our breath; none of us should think it time to end our quest.''
earlier, fred stern, du pont's press secretary, said in a telephone interview that financing was a major consideration in the withdrawal decision. he said the candidate would ``not run a deficit campaign.''
du pont raised $7.5 million and was left with $350,000 after new hampshire, stern said. but the campaign would have faced large expenses to carry on through the 20-state super tuesday contests march 8
we're solvent right now and we have enough money to run the campaign for another two weeks. unlike some of the campaigns, we're meeting our payroll,'' stern said
du pont's conservative credentials were polished by his endorsement from the union leader newspaper of manchester, n.h
du pont declared his candidacy sept. 16, 1986, making him officially the first republican in the field
i'm in a wonderful position,'' he said at the time. ``i'm unknown. i'm underrated, and there's nowhere to go but up.''
that same day, du pont took off for manchester, n.h. in an interview later that week with the wilmington news-journal, he said if he did not do well in iowa and new hampshire, he would pull out of the race. on thursday, he was true to his word
being first to announce, he drew national attention, particularly for his provocative stands on several issues, including drug testing, creation of a private alternative to social security modeled after ira accounts, and the replacement of welfare with a mandatory jobs program
thursday evening, du pont thanked several hundred supporters for their help during a farewell campaign party at a local high school
all of us are here tonight to celebrate what for me has been the greatest opportunity of my lifetime,'' he said
now some of you are tired and you deserve to rest. and some of you are sad and you're not allowed to be sad because this is not a sad occasion,'' du pont said. ``this is a celebration of a campaign for the presidency of the united states. it was run the way campaigns ought to be run, on principles, on issues.'' comparing case to dreyfus trial</note>
you're a liar!'' john demjanjuk's wife screamed at a prosecutor thursday as the year-long nazi war crimes trial of the retired ohio autoworker ended
shame on you! shame on you! you have no heart!'' vera demjanjuk shouted
mrs. demjanjuk, 63, her daughter, irene nishnic, and son, john jr., mounted the stage of the converted movie theater where the trial was held to confront prosecutors
security guards pushed the sobbing women out of the courtroom. the sounds of a scuffle could be heard followed by an angry expletive from demjanjuk's son
demjanjuk, 67, appeared startled but did not otherwise react. the ukrainian-born defendant is accused of being ``ivan the terrible,'' a brutal guard who operated gas chambers that killed 850,000 jews at the treblinka death camp in nazi-occupied poland
demjanjuk insists he is an innocent victim of mistaken identity. he was stripped of his u.s. citizenship in 1981 and later extradited to israel to stand trial for war crimes
holocaust survivor mordechai fuchs also interrupted the session, tearfully waving an aging photograph of his parents and three brothers and sister who were killed at treblinka
i was among the dead, and i am here in court today. the (defense) lawyers are liars,'' sobbed fuchs, 63, who said he escaped death by jumping from the train transporting his family to treblinka
the three-judge panel is expected to issue its verdict in april. the proceeding, which began feb. 16, 1987, was the first war crimes trial in israel since nazi mastermind adolf eichmann was convicted and hanged in 1962
the lengthy proceedings were broadcast live on television and radio. initially, spectators waited hours in line for seats, but interest waned and the final session was sparsely attended
the demjanjuk family's emotional outburst came after defense attorney john gill ended his final arguments, and prosecutor michael shaked rose to respond to accusations that the prosecution withheld documents that could exonerate demjanjuk
shaked said the prosecution had given all material to the defense ``on a silver platter,'' and even translated it
john jr., 22, rose angrily from his front row seat, walked onto the stage, turned and said: ``you're a liar.''
he was followed by mrs. nishnic, 28, who shook her fist and screamed: ``you're lying! you're lying!'' before bursting into tears
mrs. demjanjuk then rose, and in a heavily accented voice shaking with emotion, shouted: ``you're a liar! you liar! shame on you! shame on you! you have no heart _ nothing!'' she was pulled from the stage by two security guards
after the family's outburst, presiding judge dov levine told shaked and the defense team: ``you both ought to do away with this bitterness because ... we believe there was fair treatment.''
demjanjuk's family said they did not believe he received a fair trial
they've been lying from the beginning, and they're ending with a lie,'' mrs. nishnic told the associated press tearfully after the trial, her hands shaking
we didn't expect the trial to end like that, with statements that aren't true. the defense should have been the ones to have the last say,'' she said
john jr. said the family believed statements from 21 camp survivors who did not identify demjanjuk as ``ivan'' had been withheld by the u.s. justice department, and the prosecution had not intervened to help
israel's purpose has been to educate young israelis about the holocaust and if they were to acquit my dad, that would not serve their purpose,'' he said
demjanjuk has been plagued throughout the trial by a poor defense. he fired mark o'connor, his attorney of seven years, midway through the proceedings
several defense witnesses were discredited, including one who retracted her testimony and another who tried to commit suicide after her credentials were called into question during cross-examination
resting the defense case, gill called on judges to recognize the prosecution had not ``presented the proof necessary to convict this innocent man.''
we have presented evidence sufficient to destroy the prosecution case,'' gill said. ``john demjanjuk's life is in your hands.''
according to israeli law, both the verdict and sentence are reached by a majority vote of the three judges
levine said the date of the verdict would be announced 10 days in advance. if demjanjuk is convicted, a separate sentencing hearing will be held about one month after the verdict. demjanjuk could be sentenced to death
defense lawyer paul chumak apologized for comparing the proceedings with the case in which alfred dreyfus, a jewish officer in the french army, was falsely convicted of treason at the beginning of this century
chumak told the court wednesday that dreyfus was convicted ``on the basis of false documents in a wave of anti-semitism. paralleling this with anti-ukrainism, this trial has all the earmarks of the dreyfus trial.''
dreyfus was later exonerated
on thursday, chumak said he ``meant no criticism or disrespect whatsoever to this honorable court. if there were any such inference that anyone could draw, then of course i apologize unhesitatingly.''
a couple and two children were found slain in their nightclothes at their suburban home thursday night, and two teen-age sons of the couple were missing, authorities said
olmsted county sheriff charles von wald said the victims, whose names were not released, apparently were killed in cascade township early thursday with a large, sharp object. he said two family members, ages 16 and 19, were missing. despite dole, robertson cancellations</note>
vice president george bush on thursday called the super tuesday series of republican presidential primaries a crucial campaign showdown, and said: ``i intend to win.''
capping the first day of his campaign in the southern and border states which hold primaries and caucuses on march 8, bush told an enthusiastic crowd, ``there is no way you can become president of the united states by not doing well, if not winning, on super tuesday.''
bush described what's at stake as he concluded a campaign foray into missouri with a return to his adopted home state of texas
texas is george bush country,'' gov. william clements told hundreds of bush supporters massed in the flag-bedecked atrium of the loews anatole hotel
earlier, bush touted ronald reagan's record in asking missouri voters to give a chance to carry on the legacy that ``the president and i'' have established over the last seven years
we've come a long way under the reagan-bush administration,'' bush told the texas audience. ``the question now is, who is best qualified to carry on.''
earlier, in friestatt, mo., he surprised customers at a truck stop and told one woman: ``thought you were going to have a quiet cup of coffee, didn't you?''
after visiting several people in the tin lizzie restaurant at sto's auto and truck plaza, bush carried a cup of coffee himself _ he ordered a small, but got a large _ as he returned to his limousine to continue campaigning
although bush, in his drive for the republican presidential nomination, has repeatedly advertised his loyalty to reagan, he gave more emphasis to this part of his basic campaign pitch thursday
i am proud to have stood with this president through thick and through thin, and in good times and bad times, next to ronald reagan, without cutting and running,'' he said
reagan has remained neutral in the race for the gop nomination, although he is widely believed to privately favor bush. white house spokesman marlin fitzwater reiterated earlier this week that reagan plans to stay out of the gop nominating process
bush told reporters he was surprised by the size of his victory over sen. bob dole of kansas in the new hampshire primary tuesday, when bush got 38 percent of the vote to dole's 29 percent. but bush said he could not ``crow about'' elections of the past as he concentrates on the balloting still ahead
missouri is among the states with events in the crucial round of super tuesday voting march 8. as he campaigned in the state, bush kept his promise to resume the grass-roots campaign style he began after he finished behind dole and pat robertson in the feb. 8 iowa precinct caucuses
many things have improved since the president and i took office,'' bush told a crowd at an elementary school in monett
on the same day that reagan sent congress a proposed $1.09 trillion budget envisioning a $129.5 billion deficit for fiscal 1989 which begins oct. 1, bush repeated his own proposal for a four-year budget freeze
bush said, however, that his spending freeze would make allowances for the rate of inflation and would not ``freeze in'' expenditures which should go
asked as he arrived in missouri whether he needed a ``truth squad'' to check out his statements about dole, bush replied: ``i don't think so. i'm telling the truth. i hadn't heard about that. i'm going to keep doing what i'm doing here _ get the message out, fight hard. feel comfortable on the turf.''
dole has accused bush of running ads in new hampshire which distorted the senator's position on several issues
in washington, some republican senators supporting dole said they would go to the super tuesday primary states to present what they termed a clear and unequivocal picture of dole's record
we're not going to attack anyone,'' sen. wrren rudman, r-n.h., told reporters who asked if they would criticize bush for his statements about dole's voting record
rudman said, however, that during the late days of the new hampshire campaign, some bush ads criticizing dole's record were ``a misstatement of his record.''
rep. gene taylor, r-mo., accompanying bush on the flight to missouri, said he thinks reagan's standing in missouri will benefit bush. ``we've had a great upswing in missouri. we've had a great rebound in the economy,'' taylor said
in an interview, taylor said he had advised bush, ``don't get into an argument with bob dole and pat robertson.'' he also said he told the vice president he did not think negative advertising would be useful
without mentioning bush by name, sen. pete domenici, r-n.m., said ``to say that bob dole has been anything but a tax-cutter, a deficit-cutter and a fiscal conservative is simply wrong.''
bush also said he would honor his commitment to take part in friday night's republican candidate debate here, despite the fact that dole and robertson have said they will not participate
dole said in atlanta that the dallas event would be a ``pep rally'' for bush, and robertson spokeswoman constance snapp said the robertson campaign ``did not believe the format would provide a fair and equitable discussion of the issues.'' intakes closed, number of fish believed dead; picks up 9th graf, `toluene is ...'; subs 13th graf, `ms. elam ...' to conform.</note>
a toxic chemical spill snaking its way toward lake erie on thursday forced the evacuation of hundreds of people and fouled drinking water for at least 22,000 along the sandusky river
at least three people were treated for injuries after an estimated 100,000 gallons of toluene, an octane enhancer, spilled wednesday from a ruptured sun co. pipeline south of here
five hundred people, including 300 residents of old fort, 10 miles to the south, were evacuated wednesday and thursday because of the fumes
it could get worse,'' said sandusky county sheriff dave gangwer. ``it depends on how slow it moves, and it's slowing down rapidly.''
the spill reached fremont late thursday, and the city stopped pumping water from the river, officials said. they estimated a 14-mile section of the river was contaminated; the river was flowing at about 1 mph
officials fear the spill killed up to 1,000 fish, many of them under ice, in sugar creek and the sandusky river, and could affect waterfowl, said mike taylor, a wildlife officer for the ohio department of natural resources
gov. richard celeste declared a state of emergency for sandusky county, which includes fremont. the declaration makes state assistance available
about 4 million gallons of water, one day's normal supply, was put in reserve tanks before the spill arrived, said gary rathfelder, assistant superintendent of fremont's water plant
toluene is a flammable chemical that can produce irritating or poisonous gases, according to an emergency response guidebook published by the u.s. department of transportation
the spill was detected around 6 p.m. wednesday after sun workers noticed that pressure had dropped in the pipeline, which carries the chemical from a sun oil refinery in toledo to a refinery in marcus hook, pa
sonya elam, a spokeswoman for the ohio disaster services agency, said the chemical spilled in a swampy area in seneca county, south of fremont, population 22,000, and then leaked into sugar creek, a tributary of the sandusky river. the sandusky river flows north into lake erie, 10 miles north of here
ms. elam said ohio environmental protection agency workers were building a road into the swampy area and setting up a dike to contain the chemical
bob arnet, an environmental safety coordinator for the tulsa, okla.-based sun pipe line, said authorities had not located the leak
it's been shut off, but it's still leaking,'' arnet said
neither epa nor sun officials could estimate how much of the chemical had entered the sandusky river
two emergency workers were treated at tiffin mercy hospital after they fell through ice and into contaminated water, while a volunteer firefighter was treated after inhaling the fumes. all were subsequently released
bud davis, a corporate spokesman for sun, said the company would take ``liability and responsibility for the leak.''
jack fox, operations manager for sun pipe line, a sun co. subsidiary, said the source of the leak was an 18-inch split in the pipeline, which is buried 3{ feet deep and carries the chemical from northwest ohio to a refinery in marcus hook, pa
the cleanup could cost as much as $1 million and last three to four months, davis said
epa officials said they believed much of the chemical would dissipate by the time it reaches lake erie
don higgins, environmental coordinator for the ohio epa, said he did not expect lasting environmental problems, but added, ``i expect quite a bit of environmental impact on sugar creek.''
it's not the kind of stuff you want in a river,'' he said. ``it won't kill you, but you don't want to be around it for too long.'' contested sted blocked; inserts two grafs after 8th graf, `a boycott ...' with eastern comment; deletes now-outdated 11th graf, `karen ceremsak ...'</note>
the afl-cio launched a campaign thursday against what it called an attempt by texas air corp. to force a strike at eastern airlines and transfer its operations to non-unionized texas air subsidiaries
the 14.3 million-member federation's industrial union department said it has established a citizen's commission to hold hearings on a ``campaign of abuse'' against eastern's 22,550 unionized workers and ``steady deterioration of service and safety standards'' since texas air acquired it two years ago
miami-based eastern and the machinists union representing some 12,000 eastern mechanics, baggage handlers and other ground personnel have been in mediation since november after declaring an impasse on the airline's demand for a new round of wage concessions
in the meantime, the company has attempted to spin off its northeast air shuttle linking new york, washington and boston _ a move contested in court by the union _ and made extensive preparations to continue operating in anticipation of a strike as early as april 1
eastern has steadily increased work pressures and economic pressures on its employees with the clear intention of forcing a strike,'' afl-cio president lane kirkland said thursday
recruitment of strikebreakers in the midst of negotiations leaves no doubt that it (texas air) intends to repeat the all-out union-busting effort that it carried out after seizing continental airlines, when it cynically exploited the bankruptcy laws to abrogate its union contracts,'' kirkland said
howard samuel, head of the federation's industrial union department, said the citizen panel's hearings and demonstrations planned in eastern hub cities _ miami, atlanta, washington, philadelphia, new york, boston, kansas city, houston and denver _ are intended to put public pressure on texas air's debtholders to get eastern to settle with the machinists
a boycott was rejected as ``playing right into his (texas air owner frank lorenzo's) hands to destroy eastern airlines,'' samuel said
eastern spokesman robin matell said the unions' public relations campaign will only backfire
the intent is to cause further deterioration in eastern's already serious financial condition,'' he said. ``if such a self-defeating and destructive campaign were to be successful, the economic impact would unquestionably have a serious and detrimental effect on eastern's 32,500 employees.''
eastern, which reported a net loss of $181.1 million in 1987, is demanding $265 million in concessions from the machinists over the next two years. for some, that would mean wage and benefit cuts of up to 48 percent, union officials said
contracts with two other unions representing the airline's 3,550 pilots and 7,000 flight attendants also come up for renewal in july and december, respectively. the company last year told them it needs concessions totaling $185 million from the two groups
samuels said the citizen's panel will be chaired by eleanor holmes norton, former head of the equal employment opportunity commission, and includes among its members former labor secretary w. willard wirtz; the rev. joseph lowry, president of the southern christian leadership conference, and texas agriculture commissioner jim hightower. embryo</head>
a biotechnology company said wednesday it has developed a 95 percent accurate method of determining the sex of calves in the embryo
this embryo-sexing technique makes it possible to control the composition of the herd,'' said joseph m. massey, president of granada genetics inc
the technique involves removing a few cells from the cow embryo and examining them with a gene probe capable of detecting the y chromosome, which is present only in male cells and indicates a male embryo, the company said
embryos designated male or female can then be shipped to clients for transplantation, the company said
producing cattle of the desired sex has obvious advantages to dairy farmers, who need only females, massey said. because of widespread use of artificial insemination, one bull can sire thousands of calves
a soviet rocket exploded before reaching orbit this week, and debris believed to be from the blast landed off australia, with another chunk expected to hit earth on saturday, a defense official said
we are trying to identify it and project an entry area. we can't do that right now ... but should get that sometime tomorrow morning,'' bob hollie, a north american aerospace defense command spokesman, said thursday
one chunk, believed to have been a foundation piece that held three satellites to a soviet proton rocket launched sometime this week, came down off the southern coast of australia, hollie said
a second piece won't make it past the earth's atmosphere, but a third being tracked by norad is believed to be too big to burn up before hitting earth, hollie said
they may or may not be related to the proton launch by the soviet union,'' hollie said. ``we are not saying they are or are not. the problem we have is they never made it into orbit. the rocket blew up before it attained orbit.''
hollie said it's ``hard to say right now'' if the debris poses any danger. ``we don't know exactly how big the piece is,'' he said, but added that it is bigger than the piece that hit near australia
because of the low orbit, it is very hard for the u.s. space command to track it,'' hollie said
the space command, also located near colorado springs, tracks satellites, rockets and space debris. norad tracks of bombers and missiles. blood type; picks up 4th graf pvs, `no other ...'; inserts 3 grafs after 9th graf, `loma linda ...' with comments from right-to-life group</note>
a baby born with most of his brain missing and kept on life-support systems to preserve his organs for transplant was pronounced brain dead thursday, and a search was under way for compatible organ recipients
the 7-pound child known as baby boy john remained on life-support systems at loma linda university medical center on thursday afternoon, officials said. the infant suffered from anencephaly, which kills most babies within days
four babies whose blood type matched that of baby john were known to need livers, and they were being evaluated for transplant, said dr. joyce peabody, loma linda chief of neonatology
no other cases in which anencephalics have been kept on life-support for organ transplant have been announced in the united states, although dr. leonard bailey, chief of loma linda's heart transplant program, last year suggested there have been such infants
baby john was born tuesday at martin luther hospital medical center in anaheim and transferred to loma linda, where bailey has pioneered infant heart transplants
by 9 o'clock last evening our clinical criteria for brain death were met,'' ms. peabody said. she added that a neurologist unconnected with loma linda confirmed the brain death thursday
the organs of anencephalic babies can be transplanted only if organ damage is prevented by maintaining the infants on life-support. baby john's parents, who asked not to be identified, had wanted other babies to receive his organs
loma linda maintained the infant on life-support under guidelines developed last year after a woman pregnant with an anencephalic child waged a nationwide campaign to find a hospital that would consent to keep the baby on life-support until the organs could be donated. however, the baby was stillborn
loma linda guidelines call for doctors to use machines to keep the organs of anencephalic infants functioning for up to seven days, then disconnect life-support and let the baby die if brain death hasn't occurred
the procedure was denounced by the national right to life committee, which accused loma linda of going beyond prevailing medical ethics
it is an outrage to see how loma linda has bulldozed ahead in anencephalic experiments,'' said brian johnston, the group's western director. he called for a halt to further use of organs from anencephalics
we are confronted with the very real possibility that body parts will be taken from live children,'' he said
one of the hospital's 13 heart transplant patients under age 4 received the heart of an anencephalic baby earlier this year, but the donor child was in canada
bailey set off a medical controversy in 1984 when he transplanted the heart of a baboon into an infant known as baby fae. she died 20 days later
a man who had confessed a role in the slaying of the country's most prominent human rights activist recanted thursday and said he had been drugged and abused in jail
jorge miranda, 19, retracted his confession in a writ filed by his lawyers in the san salvador court where the case is being heard. he had said last month that he was a leftist guerrilla and was a lookout in the killing
the document, handwritten and signed by miranda, asks the judge to set a date for a new declaration that will negate the confession. miranda's lawyers made a copy of the document avaialble to the associated press
justice minister julio samayoa presented miranda to reporters on jan. 5 to reinforce the government's contention that leftist insurgents killed herbert anaya last oct. 26. anaya was president of the independent salvadoran human rights commission
human rights organizations and san salvador's roman catholic archbishop, arturo rivera damas, had blamed the slaying on a death squad. the rightist squads, reportedly linked to security forces, have been responsible for thousands of political killings since civil war broke out in 1979
rightists contend the rights commission headed by anaya was a front organization for the guerrillas. three members of the commission have been killed in recent years and two disappeared. death squads claimed responsibility for two of the slayings
miranda last month told journalists he served as a lookout for the assassins who shot anaya. he said he was a member of the people's revolutionary army, one of five guerrilla groups in the farabundo marti national liberation front
the government contends the rebels killed anaya to create a martyr for their movement
miranda, who is the capital's mariona jail, said in his writ: ``i took responsibility in that death (of anaya) because i felt very bad and worn out because of the treatment i was given by the national police
i felt worn out since a doctor arrived and, while i was blindfolded, gave me an injection ... this and other acts against me and my family pressured me to take responsibility for things i did not do.''
there was no indication as to when miranda's new declaration would be taken by the presiding judge. penalty; inserts 3 grafs after 7th graf, `she obtained ...' to update with tour of building.</note>
a computer whiz who authorities say went on a shooting rampage at his former company when his fantasies of romance with a co-worker unraveled was charged thursday with seven counts of murder
richard w. farley also was charged with three counts of attempted murder, burglary and vandalism in tuesday's shotgun massacre at the defense plant in neighboring sunnyvale
the 39-year-old san jose man, a software development engineer fired two years ago from esl inc., was ordered held without bail. he is scheduled to enter a plea march 4
santa clara county deputy district attorney alan nudelman said he would seek the death penalty
farley, who was being held under a suicide watch at the county jail, shot his way into the high-security installation and damaged the interior, authorities said. three people were wounded by gunfire; a fourth broke an arm trying to escape
among those recovering thursday was esl employee laura black, a 26-year-old electrical engineer, called the main target of the shootings
black says she refused to date farley but he haunted her for four years with strange gifts and threatening letters and frequently followed her
she obtained a temporary court order earlier this month for him to keep away from her, and that order was made permanent wednesday
at esl's offices thursday, several employees were led through the facility where the attack occurred. the tours were ``part of the healing process'' and were recommended by counselors, spokeswoman edie cartwright said
employees saw walls and floors riddled with bullet holes and dozens of computer terminals with screens shot out, she said. numerous windows also were shattered. blood stains had been painted over and most rugs removed
the extent of damage made it evident ``we were very lucky not to lose a whole lot more people,'' cartwright said. the company plans to reopen its first floor friday and its second floor, scene of most of the damage, on monday
meanwhile, investigators and colleagues reported that the burly texas native apparently had no criminal record, had been honorably discharged after 11 years in the u.s. navy, was highly intelligent and performed satisfactorily at several top-secret defense jobs he had held in the silicon valley
he is a part-time student in computer science at san jose state university, and was engaged to marry another computer student
he was known as ``competent, cheerful, a pretty nice guy,'' said ron edinger, president of sunnyvale-based covalent systems corp., his current employer
but neighbors said farley, who lived in a dilapidated cottage with peeling paint, was a loner who never said hello to anyone
when he failed to get dates with black, he began living in a fantasy world, said black's attorney, mary bird. farley was fired in may 1986 from his $36,000-a-year job as a software development engineer after sending a letter threatening black's life, said jerry deruntz, a company manager
the attack, said police capt. al scott and lt. ruben grijalva, was farley's way of showing he wouldn't tolerate being spurned by black or laughed at by other esl employees
according to court records black filed in seeking the court order, farley believed the two had taken vacations together and even tried to pass faked photographs as proof that the dates occurred. toward the end of the four years of alleged harassment, he issued frequent warnings that ``something bad'' could occur
it might not really occur to you how far i'm willing to go to upset you if i decide that's what i'm forced to,'' he wrote in a letter to black last july
then on nov. 13 he wrote: ``this is going to escalate ... all because you think i'm a joke and refuse to listen or to understand that i'm gravely serious.''
black said fear of the consequences had caused her to endure the behavior, obtaining an unlisted phone number and moving three times, until she realized last month that ``i'm at the end of my rope.''
the chief mediator in nicaraguan peace talks offered a five-point proposal thursday night in an attempt to break what he called an impasse between the sandinista government and contra rebels
the contras said they accepted the proposal by cardinal miguel obando y bravo ``in principle,'' but the sandinistas said it needed to be clarified in further talks friday before they could respond
obando y bravo, the head of the roman catholic church in nicaragua, called on the contras to accept a 30-day cease-fire in exchange for four major concessions by the government
those concessions were:
_a ``full, general'' amnesty for the several thousand political prisoners remaining in nicaragua, including members of former dictator anastasio somoza's national guard
_a promise to ``reconsider'' a mandatory military draft law that has sparked protests in some cities
_full freedom of the press, which now is extended only to a handful of communications outlets
_a dialogue with the sandinistas' internal opposition, including 14 dissident political parties and a coalition of business, labor and political groups
victor hugo tinoco, nicaragua's deputy foreign minister, said obando y bravo did not spell out conditions for the cease-fire ``as to when and where it would take place. we have to clarify those points
the requirements of the government were very clear and very well defined,'' tinoco said. ``but the requirement for the resistance was not as clear.''
tinoco said the cardinal's proposal did not say whether the cease-fire should be country-wide or limited only to certain zones. he said it also lacked any mention of a verification procedure
obando y bravo told reporters he offered the proposal after the two sides could not agree on the terms of a cease-fire in the opening session of a second round of face-to-face peace talks
he said the contras wanted to discuss a cease-fire in ``terms of unifying the nicaraguan family'' through political reforms, while the government sought to negotiate only a halt in hostilities
tinoco said the sandinistas had offered the rebels ``a very, very flexible proposal'' at their first round of direct talks in san jose, costa rica, in late january
our attitude is fundamentally open,'' tinoco told reporters shortly before the talks resumed thursday morning. ``we are willing to listen to what they have to say ... on all aspects of a cease-fire.''
fernando aguero, one of seven contra negotiators, said his side also approached the talks ``with our minds open. we hope we can make definite progrss in these negotiations.''
the talks took place in church offices next to the roman catholic metropolitan cathedral, where the presidents of five central american nations prayed together after signing a peace accord last aug. 7
it was that pact that brought the two sides in the 6-year-old nicaraguan conflict together, first in indirect talks in the dominican republic late last year, then in face-to-face meetings
the sandinistas arrived at 3 p.m., passing about 75 nicaraguan refugees who gathered outside the church offices chanting slogans and carrying anti-sandinista banners
obando y bravo arrived minutes later and met privately for about half an hour with the sandinista delegation
the contras came to the meeting at 3:30 p.m. in a rented bus and were greeted as heroes by the protesters. one rebel negotiator, a field commander known as commandante tono, held a fist aloft in defiance. he was hugged and kissed by women demonstrators
the contras and sandinistas sat down together and began talks at 4:30 p.m. the discussions are due to continue through saturday
the first round of direct talks came one week before the house rejected president reagan's request for $36.2 million in additional contra aid
house speaker jim wright and other democratic leaders are trying to put together a new package that would provide only non-lethal assistance to see the contras through a transition to peace
the contras want the talks to include the sandinistas' internal opposition, primarily represented by a coalition of business, labor and political groups known as the democratic coordinate
the coordinate and the contras have called for 17 changes in the nicaraguan constitution, including separation of the army from the sandinista political party, electoral reforms and the creation of a tribunal to guarantee constitutional rights
the government has countered with a call for a 30-day cease-fire, during which the contras would be confined to three zones totaling about 4,000 square miles in the northern, central and southern parts of the country
during the cease-fire, the contras would be able to retain their arms and receive humanitarian aid from relief agencies. at the end of the 30 days, they would be required to either accept amnesty or leave the country
a 76-year-old woman known as the ``people's banker'' went on trial wednesday on fraud charges stemming from an investment plan in which portuguese lost $125 million
maria branca dos santos is charged with criminal association, fraud, bouncing checks and breach of confidence for allegedly operating a huge pyramid lending scheme that cost hundreds of portugese their savings
also on trial are 68 other people accused of helping run the operation
investors poured money into the deposit scheme because it promised 10 percent interest monthly. santos was arrested in october 1984 after she was unable to pay back customers. investigation</head>
a former security consultant to lyndon larouche was sentenced to three years in prison and fined $50,000 wednesday for conspiring to obstruct an investigation of alleged fraud by supporters of the political extremist
roy e. frankhauser was the first of 14 individual and five corporate defendants in the case, including larouche, to stand trial. larouche, six aides and the five organizations are on trial in federal court here
frankhauser, 48, of reading, pa., was convicted in december of helping larouche and his aides cover up alleged credit card and loan fraud by larouche followers during his 1984 presidential campaign
testimony indicated frankhauser advised larouche to order fund-raisers to leave the country, burn documents and refuse to cooperate with investigators
larouche's attorneys have argued that they thought frankhauser was working for the cia and that in following his orders they were acting in the interest of national security
prosecutors and frankhauser's attorney said at his trial that frankhauser lied about having cia sources to impress larouche
frankhauser was convicted of conspiracy to obstruct justice, which carries a maximium penalty of five years in prison and a $250,000 fine. assistant u.s. attorney john markham requested a four-year sentence
frankhauser pleaded for leniency, saying he had to take care of his elderly mother and was planning to get married
he also said that he frequently urged larouche to settle with the alleged fraud victims and that he had cooperated with the government
frankhauser also alluded to his past membership in the ku klux klan, the american nazi party and other extremist groups, telling u.s. district judge robert e. keeton, ``i've had enough of demonstrations.''
in rejecting the plea for leniency, keeton said frankhauser and his attorney had understated frankhauser's role in the conspiracy
markham earlier had told keeton that two grand juries that investigated the alleged fraud were repeatedly stymied because larouche aides followed frankhauser's directions on how to obstruct the investigation
larouche, a candidate for the 1988 democratic presidential nomination, is charged with conspiring to obstruct justice. his trial began the week after frankhauser was convicted and is expected to last several more months
three other larouche aides named in the 125-count indictment have been granted later trials and three are fugitives
a man jailed on a murder charge in oklahoma will be represented by a stand-in saturday on the oregon lottery's televised game show, officials said wednesday
paulino sanchez, 29, could win as much as $50,000 and will receive at least $300 for participating in the show, officials said
sanchez was arrested feb. 5 on a fugitive warrant and was returned to oklahoma last week. he is accused of murdering a bicyclist in oklahoma city in 1986
a rub-off ticket sanchez bought while in oregon entitles him to appear on the weekly ``the money game'' show and compete for cash prizes
bill johnson, director of lottery security, said sanchez asked that lottery director jim davey appoint a proxy to appear in his place
any winnings will be sent to sanchez, johnson said
a baby born with most of his brain missing was on life-support systems wednesday to preserve his organs for transplant, a hospital official said. it was the first such case announced in the united states
the baby, whose name was withheld to protect the parents' privacy, was born tuesday at martin luther hospital medical center in anaheim and transferred to loma linda university medical center, said loma linda spokeswoman anita rockwell
at loma linda, the baby was put on life-support equipment
the infant appears comfortable and is showing signs of brain-stem death,'' ms. rockwell said
the baby suffers from anencephaly, in which most of the brain is missing. such children almost always die within days. their organs can be transplanted only if organ damage is prevented by maintaining the infants on life-support
loma linda is maintaining the infant under medical guidelines developed last year after a woman pregnant with an anencephalic baby waged a nationwide campaign to find a hospital that would consent to keep her child on life-support until the organs could be donated. however, the child was stillborn
the guidelines call for doctors to use machines to keep the baby's organs functioning properly for up to seven days, ms. rockewell said
if doctrs declare the infant brain-dead within seven days, he will be listed on national organ donor registries. if the baby isn't brain dead after seven days, life-support systems will be removed and the baby allowed to die
we don't want to prolong the agony of the parents. ... we feel there needs to be a limit set as to how long we'll continue this,'' ms. rockwell
no cases of anencephalics being maintained on life-support have been announced in the united states, although dr. leonard bailey, chief of loma linda's heart transplant program, hinted last november there have been such infants
one of the hospital's 13 heart transplant patients under age 4 received the heart of an anencephalic baby, but the donor child was in canada
bailey triggered an international medical controversy in 1984 when he transplanted the heart of a baboon into an infant known as baby fae. she died 20 days later
a hospital patient on a respirator died in a flash fire that enveloped the oxygen apparatus wednesday, the fire department said
the 26-year-old victim, whose identity was not released, suffered from aids-related pneumonia, said howard rubenstein, a spokesman for downtown beekman hospital
the fire remained confined to the respirator but forced the evacuation of 26 patients in the intensive care unit and patients from elsewhere in the hospital, rubenstein said. no other injuries were reported
a short-circuit in the respirator may have ignited the oxygen, fire officials said
nothing else around (the respirator) burned,'' said fire department spokesman lt. frank martinez. ``the bed ... was not burned in any way. we really have no idea of what killed the patient actually.''
thick black smoke enveloped the third-floor intensive care unit and extended down to the first floor, rubenstein said
general motors corp. said wednesday it has pulled an eight-page advertising insert from an upcoming issue of fortune magazine because of a negative cover story about gm in a recent issue
the feb. 15 issue carried a package of articles on gm and its woes, including a cover story titled ``how i would turn around gm'' by texas billionaire h. ross perot, one of the automaker's biggest critics
it just would make good business sense not to run the ad. it's not a punitive action,'' said gm spokesman jim crellin
crellin said gm research has shown that ``it's counterproductive to run an ad in a publication carrying or that recently carried a negative story.''
he added that the ad section will not run in a later issue
gm spent $750 million in 1987 to rid its board of perot, who founded gm subsidiary electronic data systems corp., and several associates
gm chairman roger smith, who was interviewed for the package, said after the magazine appeared that he had not known information from the interview would be presented as a response to perot's remarks
the ads were part of a $20 million campaign that included a glitzy weeklong auto technology show at new york's waldorf-astoria hotel in early january
neither gm nor fortune would reveal how much the ads were worth. according to the trade journal advertising age, gm was the magazine's largest advertiser in 1987
watching the frumpy, middle-aged wife of a provincial english vicar spiral out of control may not seem to be the ideal subject for what appears, at first, to be a domestic comedy
but alan ayckbourn's ``woman in mind,'' which opened wednesday at off-broadway's manhattan theater club, is a very funny play. it is also a dark, disturbing one, an unsettling look at someone slowly going mad
what makes ``woman in mind'' special is its fractured, odd-angled look at the play's main character, a dispirited, dowdy housewife named susan. the woman is defeated by life and trapped in a marriage where she is not so much unloved as ignored
the play could have been a dismal household harangue, but ayckbourn makes it decidedly unconventional. he carries theatergoers into susan's psyche, and it's a harrowing journey
a blow to the head from a garden rake sets susan off on an escape into fantasy. what ayckbourn does is juggle reality and illusion in front of us, while posing questions about happiness, love and faith and what happens to a woman who has very little of each in her life
susan's fantasies come alive in the form of a make-believe family, a husband, brother and daughter who look and sound like they just stepped out of a noel coward comedy. drinking champagne and perpetually dressed for tennis, the trio offers her relief from her unrelenting and uncaring world
these people are the antitheses of susan's real-life husband and assorted relatives and friends. the stuffy, smug husband is more concerned about finishing a 600-year history of the local parish than with his wife's mental collapse
the woman must also endure a comic gorgon of a sister-in-law whose ineptness as a cook sends guests fleeing in terror; a well-meaning but accident-prone doctor who develops a crush on her, and an unforgiving son who returns home from the clutches of a bizarre sect where silence was not only golden but absolute
susan sorts out life in her garden, a wonderfully verdant and deceptively tranquil oasis designed by john lee beatty. she survives by withdrawing from her tormenters and just refuses to fight when her imaginary and real families battle over her soul
much of this is accomplished with high humor. the playwright pricks the social, moral and cultural conventions of a lower middle class where appearances count most. it's the one thing ayckbourne's heroine can't keep up with
under lynn meadow's sensitive direction, stockard channing gives a compelling, unsentimental performance as ayckbourn's haunted heroine. it's a wide-ranging portrait, capturing the character's acerbic humor as well as her ever-increasing despair. the actress, almost unrecognizable, is a lumpy vision of growing dementia. she wears an unattractive, flower-print dress, and her hair gives new meaning to the term ``dishwater blond.''
her two families are not of equal interest, and the disparity shows in the performances. remak ramsay is superbly self-absorbed as the vicar, and patricia conolly turns in a masterful job as the lethal cook and relentess sister-in-law. there is also a gentle, low-key and thoroughly ingratiating performance from simon jones as the well-meaning doctor
susan's fantasy family is not as well defined, and such fine actors as daniel gerroll and michael countryman _ susan's idealized husband and brother _ must struggle to make them seem more than just comic devices
to his credit, ayckbourn doesn't make susan completely sympathetic, but gives her several abusive tirades which demonstrate why her husband and son have turned away
the playwright also keeps the audience off-center and at arms length. as susan descends further and further into insanity, ayckbourn darkens the comedy. the audience still laughs, but it's a nervous laughter born out of the bleakness of the situation. ``woman in mind'' never forgets the humor in the horror _ a remarkable balancing act well worth seeing
a chicago man was listed in critical condition wednesday after receiving a jarvik-7 artificial heart while he awaits a donor heart
frank r. martello, 56, underwent the two-hour operation tuesday night at loyola university medical center, the hospital said wednesday
dr. roque pifarre, surgical director of loyola's heart transplant program, said martello's heart had deteriorated despite two bypass procedures
it is estimated that the patient can be kept alive by the artificial heart for at least 30 days, the hospital said
loyola is the only medical center in illinois permitted to perform the procedure and one of 15 centers designated by the food and drug administration throughout the united states
the jarvik 7 is named for its inventor, dr. robert jarvik of salt lake city, and was first implanted in 1982 at the university of utah. the recipient, barney clark, lived for 112 days
the longest surviving recipient of the jarvik 7, william schroeder, 52, jasper, ind., lived for 620 days and was able to leave the hospital twice before his death in 1986
a judge wednesday ordered the last tenant of the rundown lorraine motel out of her home of 11 years so that the site of the rev. martin luther king's assassination can be turned into a civil rights museum
shelby county judge john a. donald said he had no choice but to side against jacqueline smith, who did not appear at the hearing or have an attorney present
miss smith, 37, was given 10 days to leave before the case is turned over the sheriff's office
during the 10-minute hearing, witnesses for the state testified that all procedures had been followed in trying to remove miss smith and that she had been offered relocation assistance
local citizens organized in 1982 to buy the lorraine at a foreclosure auction, and the state later took title to the property. the motel was closed jan. 11 and its few remaining residents were told to move out
miss smith, a former motel employee, ignored a state deadline feb. 8 to move out and likened her protest to civil rights battles led by king. she has said the museum would force poor people out of the neighborhood
king was shot to death at the motel on april 4, 1968, while in memphis to help organize a strike by sanitation workers. james earl ray pleaded guilty to the slaying and is serving a 99-year prison sentence
the museum is scheduled to open in 1991. news digest: washington_pm-budget rdp., a0484; washington_pm-budget legacy, a0423; beirut, lebanon_pm-lebanon-kidnapping, a0459; undated_pm-political rdp., a0432; washington_pm-babbitt, a0427; dover, del._pm-du pont, a0434; usulutan, el salvador_pm-salvador fighting, a0481; macon, ga._ pm-black school-georgia, a0414; little rock, ark._pm-black school-arkansas, a0415; sunnyvale, calif._pm-sunnydale shooting, a0494; sena, mozambique_pm-mozambique-food, a0413.</note>
anthony mcleod kennedy joins the supreme court today as the high court's 104th justice, bringing a crucial tie-breaking vote to a court hampered by a vacancy the past eight months
kennedy, a 51-year-old federal appellate judge from sacramento, calif., was to be sworn in amid the pomp and circumstance of a supreme court ceremony
he also was scheduled to take a separate oath of office at a later white house ceremony
the financial challenge of waging a simultaneous campaign in 20 states has presidential campaigns fresh from new hampshire scheming about where to get money for the expensive super tuesday contest
most campaigns are close-mouthed about how much they want to spend on the march 8 series of super tuesday primaries, which include all the southern states but one
but the only one who is already on the air with commercials in the south, _ sen. al gore, jr. of tennessee _ said he will spend up to a minimum of $3 million on television ads alone
israeli leaders clashed over proposals seeking peace with the palestinians, who have rioted for 10 weeks against israel's occupation of their homeland. israeli troops killed one arab and wounded five others
prime minister yitzhak shamir returned wednesday from a two-day visit to italy and rejected the idea of trading territory for peace to solve the arab-israeli conflict
u.s. secretary of state george p. shultz had made the suggestion, which foreign minister shimon peres, head of the labor party and shamir's political rival, accepted
government officials and businessmen say charges they enriched themselves on u.s. foreign aid are false or misleading and were timed to embarrass costa rica before congress voted on rebel funding
u.s. embassy sources and several other businessmen say some of the accusations are true
local officials are reacting angrily to a u.s. state department memo which charges that u.s. embassy officials in costa rica misspent and mismanaged millions of dollars in foreign aid, including providing college scholarships for children of influential citizens and creating a development agency that largely benefited politicians
the last emperor'' garnered nine academy award nominations, but this year's list of oscar contenders is a diverse lot of epics, comedies and dramas, hardly a one-picture sweep
the comedy-romance ``broadcast news'' received seven nominations wednesday, and the wartime drama ``empire of the sun'' showed up six times in the academy of motion picture arts and sciences list
the six nominations also received by the psycho-thriller ``fatal attraction'' and the offbeat love yarn ``moonstruck'' reflect the academy's orientation toward commercial hits rather than domination by artsy movies
a socialist and a saxophonist are among the dozens of arizonans _ 77 at last count _ lining up for the chance to run against gov. evan mecham in a may 17 recall election
only two, democrat carolyn warner and former u.s. house minority leader john rhodes, a republican, are given any real chance by political observers of unseating the impeached gop governor
but some of the lesser-knowns still insist their candidacies are worthwhile
a historian on the panel that investigated austrian president kurt waldheim's wartime past said britain or america could have records that show whether waldheim was involved in the executions of six british commandos
historian gerald fleming, who is pressing u.s. archivists about the german army records, spoke wednesday, a day after prime minister margaret thatcher ordered a new investigation into waldheim's alleged connection with the executions
the commandos were captured in the balkans in 1944 and interrogated by the german army unit in which waldheim was an intelligence officer
the reagan administration and the oil industry have narrowly bested the environmentalists in round 1 of their intense fight over petroleum development in the arctic national wildlife refuge
the administration's victory came wednesday as the senate energy committee voted 10-9 to open the 1.5 million-acre coastal plain to oil rigs, a controversial step that the interior department and big oil have been urging on congress for a year
under the committee's plan, drilling rigs could join the caribou and musk oxen on the refuge's frigid tundra as early as 21 months after enactment of a law repealing the current prohibition against development in the refuge
an inventor who claims he has devised a machine that produces more energy than it uses says he will appeal a judge's refusal to force the government to give him a patent for his invention
i am pleased the judge has finally ruled because i am counting on getting up to the higher court,'' joseph w. newman said wednesday after u.s. district judge thomas penfield jackson rejected his lawsuit against the u.s. patent and trademark office
i was very certain he was going to be consistent and rule against me,'' said newman, 51, of lucedale, miss
twenty states in recent years have conducted tax amnesty programs, most of them with enormous success
in new york state, about 151,000 people sought to pay up without penalty in 1985-86, bringing $392 million to the treasury that otherwise might not have been collected
illinois raised $159.1 million, california $146.8 million, and michigan $101.7 million. massachusetts collected $86.3 million, about four times what it had projected
viewed as an investment, the states did spectacularly. new york spent $2.8 million to bring in 140 times that amount. illinois' cost was $2 million, and california's $5.8 million
impressive as they might be, those figures tell only a fraction of the benefits that accrued to states
the states discovered continuing sources of higher revenue because they were able to identify those who had heretofore eluded identification. and honest taxpayers were reassured that they weren't carrying an unfair burden
moreover, the amnesty programs generally were followed by more disciplined administrative procedures to assure that evasion wouldn't be so attractive in the future
and that brings up the question: with the u.s. congress having spent two decades wrestling with budget deficits, should an amnesty program be considered on a national level?
the significance of that question descends with a shock on anyone familiar with the 1983 u.s. treasury estimate that more than $100 billion a year of federal revenue is lost because of under-reporting and nonreporting
the question of a federal amnesty isn't new, having been discussed in the media, academic circles and congress. president reagan has expressed concern about underpayment. honest and dishonest taxpayers have supported the idea
now there is more grist for the argument with publication of a study of state amnesty programs by a college professor that suggests there are ways to assure a program' success
working under a fellowship from the rockefeller institute, ram l. chugh, economist at the state university of new york at potsdam, found that the most successful programs were followed by tougher penalties immediately thereafter
chugh found that guilt and gratitude were among the three most important motivations in successful programs. the other factor, cited most often of the three, was fear
amnesty programs in several states were accompanied by warnings that tax enforcement would be much stricter after the amnesty period,'' said chugh. and in the more successful programs, publicity reinforced those warnings
there are lessons for the country in the experience of the states, one of them being that failure to pay taxes isn't always to save the money. ignorance of the law was cited. confusion was mentioned. divorce. procrastination, too
while criminality is an obvious factor in the failure to pay taxes, there are many reasons, some apparently involving simple human failings. one of those may be a failure to understand the tax system
that much becomes clear not so much from chugh's study as from the differing answers given to the same questions by those interpreting the tax laws, including the internal revenue service's own personnel
whatever the reasons, the consequences cannot be measured in money alone. chugh comments that tax evasion in its various forms has grown more serious in recent years, leading to significant social and economic consequences
for one thing, he says, ``the honest taxpayer ends up bearing the additional tax burden.'' and, he suggests, the existence of a huge element of nonpayers actually distorts official data on the economy's performance
erik hoglund, a commercial artist, brought a new style to the old art of making crystal in sweden 30 years ago. he did it with a potato
he threw the potato into a pot of molten glass, creating air bubbles. but when glassblower ruben hjelm began to shape a piece at the end of his five-foot-long iron pipe, he became enraged
the crystal had bubbles in it and wasn't clear as good crystal should be, hjelm told hoglund, and stormed out
the story goes that it took a bottle of shnapps to get hjelm back, and thus was created a style of crystal bowl and vase _ with bubbles frozen into the thick glass _ that has distinguished sweden in the art of glassmaking
the story of the potato and the air bubbles has entered local folklore in smaland, a southern province in sweden known as the crystal kingdom
here, glassblowing is a matter of pride, tradition and economic survival
smaland, which is too hilly, rocky and forested for farming, has lived from glassmaking for 100 years. the industry has suffered some hard times, but the marriage of artistry, craftsmanship and export marketing has helped bring a revival
glassmaking employs some 2,500 of smaland's 700,000 people, and earned $180 million in export income during the first 10 months of 1987
tableware from the orrefors and kosta boda companies appear in homes from tokyo to topeka and can sell for as much as $80 per glass. one vase made by orrefors in 1939 fetched $93,000 at an auction this past november
glassblowing is a craft that generally takes 10 years to master. it's a tricky art to breath a bubble of air into molten glass to give the edge just the right thickness, twirl the fiery mass on the end of the pipe, shape it, cool it and cut it
it's an art still passed on from father to son in smaland. but some aspects of the industry are changing as big companies and high-powered managers take over
when i first started working here in 1959 this was a family-owned company,'' said gunnar cyren, one of eight designers for orrefors
all the youth in the village gathered in the blowing hall to keep warm by the ovens. the door was always open. today there is a fence around the factory.''
half a million tourists a year come to the village of orrefors, which has a population of 1,000, to see the glassworks
smaland once had as many as 60 glass factories with 4,000 workers. many companies closed during sweden's economic crisis of the 1970s, and now only 20 remain
orrefors, which began as an ironworks in 1726 and turned to glassmaking later, was bought in 1971 by incentive, one of sweden's largest holding companies. kosta boda was acquired by uppsala-ekeby, another multi-company group
anxious to keep employment high, sweden's social democratic government subsidized the industries and pressured the larger companies to buy up the smaller factories to keep them open
they were afraid that the villages would die if the plants closed,'' orrefors' president, goran bernhoff, said in an interview
a 1982 devaluation of the swedish krona, together with the big-scale management and marketing of the new owners, turned around the industry
now the numbers are climbing again. about 40 young artists have opened studios to sell to tourists and other small markets, says gunnel holmer, curator of the smaland museum here in vaxjo, the regional capital
the threat to the handblown glass industry today comes from new technologies, said mrs. holmer
if we make good tableware here, others soon copy it with machines and sell it much cheaper. but the unique pieces, the `art glass,' that's something else,'' she said
glassmaking is a symbiosis between the artist and the artisan
you don't do any of the craftwork yourself,'' says designer erika lagerbielke
you make a sketch and try to explain to the glassblower what is to be done. when you work well with someone, one plus one sometimes adds up to three or four. sometimes you both end up surprised.''
that was the way it was 30 years ago with erik hoglund, ruben hjelm and the hot potato
housing construction declined in january for the second straight month, falling to the weakest level since the end of the last recession and raising fears of a new recession this year
the 1.9 percent decline in construction of single-family homes and apartments last month, reported wednesday by the commerce department, followed a 15.5 percent fall in december
construction contracts will drop 4 percent this year, led by steep declines in office and other commercial building and lesser drops in housing and public works projects, a widely watched forecast said
builders will commit to $246.2 billion worth of new contracts in all of 1988 compared with $255.2 billion last year, said an update of the 1988 dodge-sweet's construction outlook released wednesday
industrial production edged up 0.2 percent in january despite big declines in auto production and steel, suggesting the economy will slow considerably this year
the federal reserve board said wednesday that the january increase was just half the 0.4 percent gain recorded in both november and december
private analysts said this slower growth was consistent with their forecast of a significant slowdown as businesses work off a backlog of unsold inventories built up during the final three months of 1987
teamsters threatened a worldwide strike against pan am corp. on sunday, but the troubled carrier pledged to remain fully operational if the 4,500 union members walk out
frank bertucelli, business representative for local 732 of the teamsters' airline division, said wednesday the teamsters will strike at 12:01 a.m. est sunday, the end of a federally mandated 30-day cooling-off period in the union's dispute with the airline
general motors corp. has recalled nearly 322,000 buick, oldsmobile, pontiac and cadillac cars for reasons including potential fires in some models, the automaker said
gm recalled 132,000 1987 buick, pontiac and oldsmobile subcompact cars with 2.0-liter engines because a fuel line may crack or separate, leaking fuel and leading to a possible engine fire, the company said wednesday. it also recalled 179,000 1986 and 1985 buick somerset and skylarks, 5,300 cadillack eldorados and 5,300 broughams for other problems
the senate energy committee narrowly voted to permit petroleum development in the arctic national wildlife refuge, which drilling advocates have called america's best hedge against dependency on foreign oil
the wednesday decision, the first made by a congressional panel on the environmental issue, was by a 10-9 margin largely along party lines, leaving doubt whether congress will be able to enact a development bill in 1988
president reagan prepared to send his fiscal 1989 spending plan to congress and launch the last and likely least contentious budget debate of his presidency
the $1.1 trillion fiscal blueprint was expected to reprise reagan's oft-rejected requests for cutting domestic programs, with some new proposals for transferring government functions including parks management and perhaps amtrak railroad service to private industry
most carmakers plan to phase rear-seat lap and shoulder safety belts into almost all models within a year and many 1988 models already have the safety devices, the transportation department said
the department, criticized by auto safety advocates for not requiring shoulder harnesses for rear-seat passengers, released a survey wednesday of manufacturers showing their plans for installing the rear-seat shoulder belts
the government foresees trouble in making foreign loan payments this year because of lower oil export earnings, but denies speculation it will seek new terms for repaying $20 billion in refinanced debt
we will make every effort this year to prevent a significant drop in international reserves, but this will depend on oil prices,'' finance minister hector hurtado told a news conference wednesday
an amoco corp. subsidiary won $383 million in damages through international arbitration of a claim it filed against emirates general petroleum corp. in a dispute over a natural gas contract
a three-member arbitration panel of the paris-based international chamber of commerce issued the damages award feb. 1 in favor of amoco sharjah, a subsidiary of chicago-based amoco, the company said wednesday
face-to-face negotiations began in a long-shot effort to save the new york post as a friday deadline approached
the talks between management and nine post unions convened thursday in manhattan and were scheduled to continue around the clock until the 2 p.m. friday deadline set by post owner rupert murdoch, who has demanded $24 million in union concessions over three years
the stock market posted scattered losses wednesday, encountering resistance after the rally of the past week. the dow jones average of 30 industrials, up 110.25 points over the past five sessions, slipped 4.98 to 2,000.99
bond prices were little changed. the dollar finished lower against most key currencies in slow trading, gold prices rose slightly, and most commodities finished mixed
they call themselves ``the steeple people,'' and their creations can be found reaching for the sky from alaska to saudi arabia
jerry bennett has been one of them since his college days when he took a part-time job to help pay for his education. today, at 48, he is president and co-owner
there aren't many things we can't do when it comes to steeples,'' said bennett. ``we also specialize in cupolas, crosses, towers, or anything else needed to decorate a church or a building.''
campbellsville industries' products are shipped everywhere and may range from six feet to 229-feet, which is the size of what bennett calls the world's largest prefabricated steeple
we're trying to get it included in the guinness book of records,'' bennett said, adding that the $350,000 project was built for the first baptist church of huntsville, ala
other installations include the baptist pavilion at the 1982 world's fair in knoxville; the solidarity tower replica in chicago; and reproduction of the west bridgewater, mass., steeple, which was originally constructed during paul revere's time
the order from saudi arabia called for a cupola for a waterworks system.''
bennett's plant, located 80 miles from louisville, has 85 employees, including six draftsmen who will furnish a design if the customer doesn't know in advance what he wants
the company mails out more than one million pieces of advertising annually, but bennett said he also gets sales from the interstates
somebody will see our trucks, loaded with steeples or cupolas, and then telephone us to ask, `how do i get one of those things?' ''
his crews do a lot of driving. several years ago, they made four 1,200 mile trips to new haven, conn., to erect a spire on a roman catholic landmark there
bennett became involved with steeples after campbellsville college set up a small industry complex on campus to help students with their finances
i was among those who were able to work with wood or metal, turning out items that could be marketed for a nominal profit.''
later, bennett taught art in high school but returned to the college as a full-time employee handling designs and sales for the complex
in 1969, campbellsville college sold the business to a private individual who kept it 10 years before he was bought out by bennett and three other employees
although the company is diversified, steeples still account for 60 to 70 percent of sales. they also have caused a few embarrassing moments
bennett recalled the time that a contractor in virginia purchased a steeple and gave ``our deliveryman vague instructions about reaching the church where it was to be installed.''
the spire went to another church and the contractor showed up the next morning to retrieve it
before he could say anything, the excited minister told him:
we have been praying for new pews and an anonymous donor provided them
we prayed for new carpet and got it anonymously
the last item we wanted was a new steeple. last night, the lord put it in our front yard.''
the contractor explained the mixup and admitted later to bennett that ``it was the hardest thing i've ever done.''
oil prices remain mostly lower amid sluggish demand and adequate supplies
at the new york mercantile exchange, contracts for march delivery of west texas intermediate, the benchmark u.s. crude oil, closed wednesday at $16.61 per 41-gallon barrel, down 6 cents from tuesday
among refined products, wholesale contracts for unleaded gasoline closed at 46.66 cents a gallon, up 0.37 cent, while wholesale heating oil was down 0.79 cent at 45.58 cents a gallon
a trade report published late tuesday stimulated an early rally, because the numbers showed sharp drawdowns of gasoline and heating oil supplies, as well as a cutback of refinery use in the week ended friday, analysts said
they said the figures _ released by the washington-based american petroleum institute _ led many traders to believe that prices would increase, as existing demand chased tigher supplies
but the gains turned into losses, ``once people realized that the stocks were moving from primary storage into secondary storage in anticipation of the tugboat strike in new york harbor,'' said donald morton, an analyst at the boston office of prudential-bache securities inc
the market closed at its low in fairly light volume,'' he added
morton said dealers were having the products shipped from new york to boston and other markets to ensure continued access
a union representing 2,500 tugboat and barge crew members went on strike against nine towing companies on tuesday
northwest airlines' 6,500 flight attendants will vote to strike on feb. 26 if they haven't reached agreement on a new contract, teamsters union officials say
about 300 flight attendants with the eagan, minn.-based airline began the strike authorization vote tuesday during a union meeting in bloomington. results of the voting, which will continue through saturday in minneapolis and st. paul, minn., and five other u.s. cities, are expected to be announced at a strike rally monday night, teamsters local 2747 officials said wednesday
strike authorization requires a two-thirds majority of the membership
in the last strike against northwest, the machinists union walked out for 27 days in may 1982
the two sides have not negotiated since the national mediation board released them from mandatory negotiations last month because they were deadlocked over wages, fringe benefits and work rules. a 30-day cooling-off period ends feb. 26
a federal mediator is expected to bring the two sides together again next week, although no date has been set
northwest officials said they are determined to keep flying if a strike occurs. about 2,000 northwest managers are qualified to be flight attendants and would be used during a strike, said northwest spokesman redmond tyler. northwest also has advertised to recruit replacement flight attendants over the past few weeks
but some travel agents are beginning to warn prospective northwest passengers of a possible strike
people are starting to ask about it, '' said kevin mossier, president of the travel co., a minneapolis-st. paul travel agency
northwest, which merged with republic airlines in 1986, controls about 60 percent of the minneapolis-st. paul passenger traffic. in the event of a strike, united airlines, the no. 2 carrier in the twin cities, would bring in larger planes for twin cities flights, according to united spokesman matt gonring in chicago
on tuesday, a federal judge in new york city ordered the teamsters local to reinstate northwest flight attendants guy meek and john davis as members of the union's negotiating committee. meek and davis formerly worked for republic
the teamsters must allow the two men to participate in negotiations and vote on whether to send any contract offers to the flight attendants for ratification, u.s. district judge joseph mclaughlin ruled
teamsters officials had ejected the two men from the bargaining committee last fall, alleging that they tried to persuade 2,800 former republic attendants not to pay union dues
former republic attendants said the teamsters have urged them to pay union dues voluntarily
it was not clear from the judge's order whether the teamsters can force the members to pay dues, but teamsters spokesman jeff musto said all flight attendants would be allowed to vote on the strike authorization whether or not they were current on dues
on another front tuesday, a federal judge in minneapolis said northwest and its machinists union will have to arbitrate a 1{-year-old dispute over restoration of wage cuts granted by about 1,200 former republic airlines employees
u.s. district judge david doty dismissed a lawsuit brought by district lodge 143 of the international association of machinists in november 1986 and refused to order northwest to pay the higher wages
the dispute, which involves mechanics, stock clerks, plane cleaners, custodians and clerical workers who granted wage concessions to republic, should be resolved by an arbitrator, not a federal judge, doty ruled
black &amp; decker corp. has been rebuffed again in its attempt to make personal contact with the top management of american standard inc., which is the target of a takeover bid by black &amp; decker
in a filing wednesday with the securities and exchange commission, the power tool and home appliance maker said chairman nolan b. archibald attempted to telephone american standard chairman william b. boyd on feb. 11
unfortunately, as has been the case throughout, mr. boyd wouldn't take the call,'' said black &amp; decker spokeswoman barbara lucas
archibald wanted to reconfirm his company's ``strong desire to arrange a one-on-one meeting with mr. boyd to negotiate a business combination between black &amp; decker and the company, and to advise mr. boyd that he was willing to make major concessions in order to consummate a friendly transaction, including a preemptive price, board seats and financial arrangements for employees of the company,'' ms. lucas said
the message was no different from the one we've been leaving all along,'' she said
we think the price of $65 (a share) was a preemptive price,'' she said. the towson, md.-based manufacturer will consider raising that price, ``only on the basis of information that we haven't seen yet.''
however, the sec filing should not be taken as a sign that black &amp; decker is willing to raise the price, she stressed
american standard has urged its shareholders to reject black &amp; decker's $2.1 billion hostile takeover. the new york-based maker of plumbing, heating and air conditioning equipment has also adopted a ``poison pill'' defense that allows its shareholders to buy back shares of the surviving company at half their market value
american standard also has said it is considering alternatives to the bid, including a restructuring, leveraged buyout or a friendly merger with another company
black &amp; decker, which originally bid $56 a share for american standard stock, said last week it had obtained bank financing for the deal
the president of the association of flight attendants urged the federal aviation administration to tighten its regulation of the airline industry
passengers' first priority should be to insist that the faa promote safety over profit, rebuild the inspector workforce and place tighter controls on the number of flights until the air traffic controller workforce is rebuilt,'' susan bianchi-sand said at a news conference wednesday
ms. bianchi-sand proposed reforms that she said were inexpensive ways to improve cabin safety
all that is needed is a will to make flying truly safe,'' the union president said. ``we have learned from emergency after emergency that changes are needed.''
ms. bianchi-sand said the faa should update its standards to require passenger seats that do not break loose in a crash, require life vests on more planes, and limit the hours that flight attendants can work
ms. bianchi-sand said the faa also should resist industry pressure to repeal a ruling that would require improved cabin materials and reduce the threat of toxic smoke
where costs are involved, the industry is almost shameless,'' she said
campeau corp. has intensified the pressure on federated department stores inc. by boosting its tender offer for the giant retailer to $61 a share
federated, meanwhile, continued to look into ways of avoiding a hostile takeover
campeau's amended offer came wednesday a day after the federated board of directors rejected the toronto developer's previous proposal to pay $66 a share in a definitive merger agreement. the board had questioned whether campeau had the necessary financial backing to complete the $5.85 billion deal
campeau said it would further sweeten its bid to $66 if federated agreed to be acquired by midnight sunday. the company was only willing to pay $66 a share if federated management agreed to go along voluntarily. campeau is offering a lower price if federated management resists
instead of accepting the tender offer, the federated directors decided on a restructuring that could include retaining federated's department stores and selling its other assets, the company said
the latest rebuff by federated's directors did not deter campeau, which said wednesday it has the necessary financing to buy federated
campeau's latest tender offer of $61 a share amounts to about $5.4 billion, a sharp increase from the $47 a share, or roughly $4.2 billion, it initially offered on jan. 25. federated rejected the original tender offer as inadequate
federated stock fell $2 to $61.75 a share in new york stock exchange trading wednesday
federated also twice rejected campeau's alternative offer for a definitive merger agreement, including offers of $61 and $66 per share, because it questioned campeau's ability to complete such a deal
however, campeau spokeswoman joele frank said in new york wednesday that ``financing for a $66 bid is absolutely solid.''
federated managers are looking into other options, such as selling to other unspecified interested parties, issuing perferred stock and buying back more than half of federated's 88.5 million shares
analysts said it was unclear how federated might proceed if it chooses to sell its non-department store assets
a lot depends on whether they sell them to someone outright or spin them off'' through a public stock offering, said thomas tashjian, an analyst with the los angeles investment firm of seidler amdec securities inc
federated operates about 650 stores in 36 states and had sales exceeding $11 billion last year. its holdings include bloomingdale's and abraham and straus, both based in new york; filene's of boston; burdines of miami; rich's in atlanta; bullock's and bullock's-wilshire in los angeles; i. magnin in san francisco; and lazarus in ohio
the company could be considering selling chains such as its ralphs grocery stores, main street soft-goods stores, gold circle discount stores and children's place clothing stores, industry observers said
federated's directors said a shareholders' rights plan adopted by the board last month would take effect thursday. the plan, known as a ``poison pill'' defense, is designed to discourage an unwanted takeover by making such a move more expensive
federated spent last weekend negotiating with numerous parties, including campeau, which bought allied stores corp. in december 1986. among those believed to be interested is the takeover specialist firm kohlberg, kravis, roberts &amp; co., based in new york
campeau's upgraded tender offer wednesday includes a provision that recently enacted anti-takeover legislation would have to be invalidated. campeau is challenging anti-takeover measures in delaware and ohio
cincinnati-based federated could be covered by both anti-takeover measures because it is based in ohio and is incorporated in delaware
britain's unemployment rate fell to a seasonally adjusted 9.2 percent of the workforce in january from 9.4 percent in the previous month, the department of labor said thursday
last month's figure also was down from 11.2 percent in january 1987
the latest rate was the lowest since november 1981, when the jobless rate was also 9.2 percent. the number of jobless has declined for 18 consecutive months, the department said
total seasonally adjusted unemployment was estimated at 2.56 million people in january, down from a revised 2.61 million people in december and 3.11 million people a year ago. arabia</head>
texaco inc. plans to sell a stake of about 50 percent in its extensive u.s. gulf coast refining operations to saudi arabia for more than $1 billion, according to the international herald tribune
a final agreement between petromin, the saudi arabian oil holding arm, and texaco is expected to be reached within a month, the herald tribune reported thursday, quoting an unidentified texaco executive and unidentified arab oil executives attending an annual conference of the institute of petroleum in london
in white plains, n.y., a spokesman at texaco's headquarters refused to confirm or deny the accuracy of the report
on jan. 8, texaco announced as part of its restructuring plan that it would aggressively move foward to get partners in joint ventures based on its downstream operations,'' said k. peter maneri. ``at this stage, it would be inappropriate to issue public statement regarding those discussions.''
saudi arabia has been considering taking a large stake in the refining and marketing arms of one of the u.s. major oil companies which were once shareholders in the arabian american oil co., or aramco, oil industry officials said
those companies are chevron corp., exxon corp. mobil corp., and texaco
over the past few months, all four companies have been given preferential access to saudi arabia's crude oil at market-related prices, which are below officials prices, while most other companies have had to pay official prices for the oil
texaco has been the largest single buyer of saudi crude oil for the past year, oil industry sources said
texaco announced its restructuring program as part of its plan for emerging from chapter 11 bankruptcy protection
the nation's third-largest oil company hopes to complete that move in april, one year after it filed for protection from its creditors to avoid having to post a potentially ruinous bond while appealing a $10.3 billion judgement held against the company by pennzoil co
a houston jury awarded the judgement to pennzoil after ruling that texaco had improperly interfere with a pennzoil plan to acquire part of getty oil co. and acquired getty itself
as part of its proposed reorganization plan, texaco agreed to settle the case by paying pennzoil $3 billion in cash
japan has made satisfactory moves to regulate its stock and futures markets to curb insider trading, the chairman of the u.s. securities and exchange commission said thursday
i think the japanese are moving at a good pace toward insider trading restrictions,'' said david s. ruder, who arrived here this week at the invitation of japanese officials for talks on improving cooperation to guard against insider trading and cope with market volatility
i have had a great sense of a desire for cooperation between the american and the japanese stock markets, futures markets and regulators,'' he said
the sec, which regulates the u.s. securities industry, and japan's finance ministry issued a joint statement wednesday saying both sides had agreed to strengthen measures against insider trading and improve communication between exchanges in both countries
the statement came a day after the finance ministry recommended in a report stronger measures against insider trading on par with those in the united states. the report said japan's securities and exchange law should be tightened to specifically prohibit insider trading and recommended that criminal penalties replace current civil penalties for such abuses
ruder said the proposal ``seemed to cover the elements of insider trading as we know it in the corporate environment in the united states.''
wednesday's joint statement vowed to encourage discussions between self-regulatory organizations in both countries to detect fraudulent activity and develop ``procedures for the exchange of financial, surveillance and investigatory information among those organizations.''
restrictions on insider trading, ruder said, must be approached carefully because of a conflict between preventing inside corporate information from leaking to the public and a desire to encourage public disclosure of certain information
the infrequency of corporate takeovers in japan helps prevent large-scale insider trading, he said. knowledge of a planned takeover before its public disclosure is a key reason for insider trading, as it creates an opportunity to buy stocks of a target company and often sell them at a higher price later
but financial sources have said information is often leaked to investors in the japanese market
japan's big four securities firms _ nomura, nikko, daiwa and yamaichi _ can handle as much as 80 percent of daily stock trading volume, creating an environment for market manipulation, financial sources say
until october's worldwide stock market crash led the tokyo stock exchange to impose rules on reporting transactions, japanese executives were not required to report transfers of their shareholdings
the sec and finance ministry recognized a growing ``interlinkage'' between markets in both countries and agreed that planned expansion of futures trading in japan will intensify their interdependence, ruder said
he also said communication between the u.s. and japanese markets would be improved after the u.s. commodities futures trading commission is put in direct contact with the finance ministry's securities bureau
in talks this week, the ministry and the sec agreed to create safeguards to counter ``market emergencies,'' their joint statement said
market volatility, as experienced in october 1987, becomes even more a global concern,'' ruder said, and praised the caution exercised by japanese institutional investors in times of crisis
stock prices in new york fell about 23 percent on black monday, but the nikkei stock average, the tokyo market's key indicator, followed with a fall of less than 15 percent partly because japanese institutional investors were reluctant to flee the market, ruder said
i think i will go back to give the message to institutional investors that they should be more cautious in their reactions, like japanese investors,'' he said. surface</head> congress; picks up 2nd graf pvs: the commerce ...</note>
president reagan sent congress a $1.09 trillion conciliatory, election-year budget today that combines his most restrained military request ever with proposals for more spending on education, science and the fight against aids
reagan's 1989 budget, the last budget of his presidency, calls for reducing the federal deficit from $150.2 billion last year and the $146.7 billion estimated for 1988 to $129.5 billion in the fiscal year that begins next oct. 1
that is below the target of $136 billion called for in the gramm-rudman deficit-reduction law
the new budget also contends that the ``economy has shown few signs of serious damage'' from last october's stock market plunge, and that the recent boom in exports holds out the promise of continued economic expansion
but signs of economic weakness were evident in the government's reports that housing construction fell in january while industrial production rose at a slower rate than in each of the previous two months, some analysts say
the commerce department said wednesday that housing construction fell 1.9 percent to its slowest pace since the end of the last recession five years ago
separately, the federal reserve board said industrial production rose 0.2 percent in january after 0.4 percent gains in november and december
the report on construction of single-family homes and apartments raised new concerns among some economists about the possibility of a recession this year
the january decline in housing construction followed a 15.5 percent december tumble and pushed building activity down to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 1.38 million units, the slowest pace since a rate of 1.3 million units in december 1982, just as the last recession was ending
housing is being watched very closely in the aftermath of the stock market crash last october because it is often one of the first sectors to weaken at the onset of a new recession
the weakness last month came from a 2.9 percent decline in construction of single-family homes, which fell to an annual rate of 1.01 million units
this drop offset a 0.8 percent increase in construction of multi-family housing, which edged up to an annual rate of 366,000 units
building permits, considered a good sign of future activity, fell 8.2 percent in january to an annual rate of 1.25 million units, the lowest level for permits since january 1985. permits had fallen 7.4 percent in december
in a separate report, a private forecasting firm estimated that construction contracts will drop 4 percent this year, led by steep declines in office and other commercial building and lesser drops in housing and public works projects
builders will commit to $246.2 billion worth of new contracts in all of 1988 compared with $255.2 billion last year, according to an update of the 1988 dodge-sweet's construction outlook from mcgraw-hill information systems co
private analysts said the slower growth in industrial production may indicate the economy will slow in the early part of 1988 as businesses work off a backlog of unsold inventories built up during the final three months of 1987
the federal reserve traced the output rise in january to production of non-durable goods, which rose 0.4 percent. production of durable goods, items expected to last three years, showed no increase last month
in a budget that calls for few tax changes, president reagan today recommended a tax break to help parents save to pay for a college education for their children
the president, in submitting his 1989 budget to congress, said he will ask lawmakers to make tax-exempt the interest on savings bonds that are redeemed to finance post-secondary education. this would cost the government an estimated $10 million during the 12 months beginning next oct. 1
the tax benefit would be targeted for lower- and middle-income families and would be eliminated as earnings exceed a certain level
the costs of post-secondary education have increased substantially in recent years, often faster than inflation,'' reagan said in his written message to congress. ``as a result, parents may have difficulty bearing these costs unless they establish a savings program for this purpose when their children are young.''
the biggest new revenue-raiser recommended by the president would require all state and local government employees to pay the medicare hospital-insurance tax. the tax, which most americans already pay, is 1.45 percent of the first $45,000 earned. the levy is collected as part of the social security tax
the tax already is collected from state and local workers hired after march 31, 1986. reagan said workers hired before that date also should be required to pay in order to reduce a drain on the medicare system
the change, which congress has rejected several times, would bring in $1.6 billion in 1989
repeal of the ``windfall-profit'' tax on the oil industry, which congress also has rejected, is included in the president's budget. reagan says the tax, which was imposed when oil prices were rising, is an unnecessary paperwork burden on the industry at a time of declining prices
the oil industry would get a $52-million tax break under the budget if congress goes along with a proposed modification of rules affecting the depletion allowance
other revenue proposals:
_a permanent tax break for owners of shares in mutual funds, who would be affected by a 1986 tax change that limits miscellaneous itemized deductions to those that exceed 2 percent of adjusted gross income. congress voted an exception to mutual-fund deductions for 1987 only
_permit u.s. companies to allocate at least two-thirds of their total research and development expenditures to domestic operations. this would save them about $600 million in 1989
_make permanent a temporary tax credit for research and experimentation, saving u.s. companies $400 million next year
_repeal a provision imposed by congress that reduces air-ticket taxes and aviation-fuel levies when federal spending for airport and airways imporovements drops below a certain level
_increase user fees incurred in federal regulation of nuclear power plants
_change the method of calculating a special fee on imported products, costing the government about $100 million next year. the modification of the 0.17-percent fee is necessary to bring the united states into compliance with international trade agreements. include morgan reaction. picks up 3rd graf pvs, moody's also ...</note>
a major wall street debt analyzer has lowered its credit ratings for eight of the nation's biggest banking institutions because of a decline in its valuation of their foreign loans
the action wednesday by moody's investors service comes 15 days after another credit ratings service, standard &amp; poor's corp., lowered its estimate of the creditworthiness of five big banking companies
among the banking concerns downgraded by moody's was j.p. morgan &amp; co., which lost its top rating. at the same time, moody's affirmed its top rating for morgan's banking unit, morgan guaranty trust co
in a statement, the company said it was disappointed that the rating of the holding company ``does not appear to recognize fully our exceptional capital position and our capacity to repay all debt without reliance on any dividends from morgan guaranty.''
moody's also said it had confirmed its ratings for three banking companies and was continuing to review its rating on debt from a 12th banking concern, european american bank corp
the ratings help determine interest rate levels for companies borrowing money in the credit markets and apply to securities of various maturities. a lower rating often means a company may have to pay more interest to sell debt
the downgradings affected about $48 billion in outstanding debt, while the confirmations applied to about $34.6 billion in debt, moody's said
roger arner, senior analyst at moody's, said the action followed a review begun last december of loans that a dozen major banking companies and their subsidiaries had outstanding to third world countries
moody's had previously indicated that some third world countries, including brazil, argentina and venezuela, were becoming economically less capable and politically less willing to continue servicing their debt as agreed
arner said moody's review indicated that some banking institutions continued to carry some third world loans on their books at a higher value than the ratings concern felt was warranted
we think their assets are worth less. we think banks will continue to need to build their capital and that our ratings are reflective of our assesment of their ability to do that,'' he said
the ratings cuts generally ranged from one to three steps on the agency's 10-step system for investment quality ratings, depending on moody's assessment of the varying earnings potential, capital and assets of each of the concerns
the eight downgrades included j.p. morgan & co.; bankers trust co.; citibank n.a.; chase manhattan corp.; chemical new york corp.; manufacturers hanover corp.; bankamerica corp.; and irving trust co
the three ratings confirmations were for first chicago corp., continental illinois corp. and bank of nova scotia
moody's took different approaches in some cases on its ratings of debt issued by a bank holding company and that by its subsidiary bank
while lowering the rating for citibank, for instance, moody's confirmed its rating for the parent company, citicorp. citibank is the nation's biggest bank and citicorp is the nation's biggest bank holding company
on feb. 2, standard &amp; poor's said it was lowering its rating on debt from chase manhattan corp., bankamerica corp., chemical new york corp., manufacturers hanover corp. and first chicago corp., citing third world loans
at the same time, it affirmed its ratings for citicorp, bankers trust new york corp. and j.p. morgan &amp; co
many major banking companies reported losses or sharply diminished earnings in 1987 as they boosted their loan-loss reserves, which provide a cushion for future earnings against loans that may be written off or sold at a loss
but arner said moody's viewed some of those actions as ``accounting transfers'' that the agency felt ``have not added any real strength to the balance sheet.''
the reagan administration today issued an economic forecast any republican presidential candidate could run on with pride, predicting a record sixth year of peacetime economic growth with no increase in inflation
the administration, which in the past has been derided for its ``rosy scenarios'' of future economic activity, presented an optimistic view that the current expansion will continue into the indefinite future. and it derided initial recession fears from the october stock market crash as ``greatly exaggerated.''
despite the sharp reversal in stock prices, however, the real economy has shown few signs of serious damage,'' the budget forecast stated
while the economic assumptions that underpin the president's 1989 budget are more optimistic than the predictions made by the congressional budget office and most private forecasters, they are not as far from the general consensus as in previous years
indeed, the administration boasts that its economic forecast a year ago, which was also above the general consensus, turned out to be closer to right
the economy, as measured by the gross national product, grew 3.8 percent in 1987, when measured from the fourth quarter of 1986. the administration had predicted 3.2 percent growth
most forecasters failed to anticipate the magnitude of the improvement in the manufacturing sector just then getting under way,'' the budget stated
for 1988, the administration predicts manufacturing will remain a source of strength with export sales continuing to rise because of the weaker dollar
the administration predicts the overall economy will expand at a 2.4 percent annual rate this year with much of that growth coming from the improving trade deficit
this compares to a cb0 growth forecast of 1.8 percent. the cbo forecast is the same as the consensus view of 51 top economists surveyed by blue chip economic indicators, an investment newsletter
among the economic assumptions, the administration predicts:
_gnp growth will rebound in 1989 to a 3.5 percent rate and stay above 3 percent through 1993
_consumer inflation, which rose 4.4 percent last year, will rise by 4.3 percent this year and decline steadily over the next four years to a 2 percent rate in 1993
_unemployment, because of the modest growth, will show no improvement this year, remaining at 5.8 percent at the close of the year, matching the current level. however, the jobless rate will begin declining modestly in future years, dropping to 5.5 percent in 1989
these assumptions provide the basis for the administration's hopes of making further progress in getting the federal budget under control
the 1989 spending plan, reagan's eighth submission to congress, has a valedictory quality about it, reviewing in detail the president's economic goals when he took office in 1981 and trying to explain the reasons for reagan's biggest economic failure, the string of record budget deficits
the administration, as it has in the past, put much of the blame on congress for failing to enact its domestic spending cuts. but the budget also says the 1981-82 deficit played a large role, adding $112 billion to the deficit in 1983 alone
the new budget calls for reducing the federal deficit to $129.5 billion in the fiscal year that begins next oct. 1, down from an actual budget deficit of $150.2 billion in the 1987 fiscal year and an estimated deficit of $146.7 billion for the current fiscal year
the 1987 deficit was originally put at $148 billion but was revised in today's budget document
the 1989 budget estimate is below the target of $136 billion called for in the gramm-rudman deficit-reduction law, but the administration concedes that its estimates in the past have fallen victim to worse-than-expected economic performance
those pitfalls could derail the current plan as well, the administration says, noting that if gnp growth is just 1 percent lower than the administration is forecasting over the next five years it would add $6.3 billion to the 1989 deficit and $66 billion to the 1993 deficit
a minority of economists is predicting an even worse outcome for this year, forecasting the economy will fall into an actual recession
if growth is slower than the administration forecasts, or in a worst-case scenario, the country does enter a recession, then that would mean smaller federal tax revenues and higher spending for such programs as unemployment benefits
the current economic recovery began in december 1982, following the worst recession since the great depression, and is now in its 63rd month, surpassing the old record for a peacetime recovery of 59 months set between 1975 and 1979
the stock market declined slightly today in sluggish trading
the dow jones average of 30 industrials dropped 1.98 to 1,999.01 in the first half hour
losers outnumbered gainers by about 7 to 6 in the early tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 466 up, 552 down and 497 unchanged
volume on the big board came to 18 million shares as of 10 a.m. on wall street
analysts said there was little in the economic news to prompt traders to take big positions either way
the market rallied last week and monday as some of investors' worst fears about the business outlook eased
but expectations for economic growth and corporate profits remain subdued, and many market participants are evidently reluctant to buy stocks with the dow hovering around the 2,000 level
speculation has also died down lately that the federal reserve will take any new steps in the immediate future to relax its credit policy
hewlett-packard was a standout gainer among the blue-chip and technology issues, rising 1{ to 59. the company reported earnings for its fiscal quarter ended jan. 31 of 71 cents a share, up from 45 cents in the comparable period a year earlier
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks dipped .02 to 145.70. at the american stock exchange, the market value index was down .10 at 278.99
on wednesday the dow jones industrial average slipped 4.98 to 2,000.99
declining issues slightly outnumbered advances on the nyse, with 743 up, 761 down and 472 unchanged. big board volume totaled 176.83 million shares, against 135.38 million in the previous session. contract approval, eight plants voting to return to work. picks up 4th graf pvs, the settlement ... a version moving on general news wires.</note>
early returns in voting today by 32,000 striking empoyees from ford motor co.'s british plants indicated strong approval of a new two-year contract, the company said
we are greatly encouraged by the voting figures coming in,'' said a ford spokesman who spoke on condition of anonymity. ``there have been some big swings in favor of accepting the offer, compared to voting on the last offer, which was turned down.''
the final results were to be released on friday, but the spokesman said hourly workers from at least eight of ford's 22 british plants voted to accept the contract
the strike, which began feb. 8, prompted the layoff of more than 9,700 workers. it disrupted production at a ford plant at genk, belgium, and threatened production at ford plants in spain and west germany, which rely on parts made at the british plants
the settlement was worked out in negotiations tuesday between company and union officials. if accepted, operations at ford's british plants could resume monday
shop stewards representing 8,000 ford workers at the traditionally militant halewood plant near liverpool in northwest england on wednesday recommended rejection of the offer
peter moore, a local union official at halewood, said: ``we feel there should be more money on offer, but we are also concerned that plants on the continent are getting improvements in hours and holidays and we won't be getting that for another two years.''
shop stewards at a ford engine-manufacturing plant in bridgend, wales, recommended acceptance, saying they believed the company had made significant concessions. that plant employs 1,300 hourly workers
the financial times, britain's leading business daily, said in today's editions that the strikers seemed set to accept the deal, although possibly by a narrow margin. the british broadcasting corp. said the deal appeared likely to gain at least 60 percent support
ford backed down on its demand for a three-year contract, offering instead a two-year pact with wage increases of at least 14 percent over the term of the contract. a ford assembly worker in britain now earns a basic $320 a week
the unions agreed to changes in working practices designed to increase productivity, but the changes must be agreed upon at the plant level instead of being imposed by management
legislator barry porter of prime minister margaret thatcher's governing conservative party on wednesday condemned the proposed settlement
it is quite clear that other industrial unions will take this climbdown by the management as their bench mark for their claims in the future. this has national implications in relation to the government's fight against inflation,'' he said
britain's annual inflation rate is now 3.3 percent. this is the lowest it has been since october 1986
the government introduced tough measure to curb the once powerful unions and the last major industrial strike in britain was a yearlong walkout by more than 90,000 coal miners in 1984-1985
but the ford strike, a walkout by english channel ferry crews, and unrest in the state-run national health service and elsewhere prompted fears in some quarters that they could herald a new wave of industrial strife and an explosion in pay demands
ford's british workers last walked out for nine weeks in 1978
the stock market drifted lower in quiet trading today, continuing the sluggish pattern of wednesday's session
the dow jones average of 30 industrials dropped 6.13 to 1,994.86 by 11 a.m. on wall street
losers outnumbered gainers by about 5 to 4 in the early tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 522 up, 674 down and 508 unchanged
volume on the big board came to 48.39 million shares at midmorning
analysts said there was little in the economic news to prompt traders to take big positions either way
the market rallied last week and monday as some of investors' worst fears about the business outlook eased
but expectations for economic growth and corporate profits remain subdued, and many market participants are evidently reluctant to buy stocks with the dow hovering around the 2,000 level
speculation has also died down lately that the federal reserve will take any new steps in the immediate future to relax its credit policy
hewlett-packard was a standout gainer among the blue-chip and technology issues, rising 1] to 58~. the company reported earnings for its fiscal quarter ended jan. 31 of 71 cents a share, up from 45 cents in the comparable period a year earlier
lomas &amp; nettleton financial fell 1] to 15\ on top of a 1[-point drop wednesday, when the company said it would take a charge of about $93 million in the current quarter in connection with moves to cease its homebuilding operations and restructure its mortgage banking division
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks lost .26 to 145.46. at the american stock exchange, the market value index was down .61 at 278.48
the stock market showed a small loss in quiet trading today, continuing the sluggish pattern of wednesday's session
the dow jones average of 30 industrials dropped 1.16 to 1,999.83 by noontime on wall street
losers slightly outnumbered gainers in the overall tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 638 up, 670 down and 485 unchanged
analysts said there was little in the economic news to prompt traders to take big positions either way
the market rallied last week and monday as some of investors' worst fears about the business outlook eased
but expectations for economic growth and corporate profits remain subdued, and many market participants are evidently reluctant to buy stocks with the dow hovering around the 2,000 level
speculation has also died down lately that the federal reserve will take any new steps in the immediate future to relax its credit policy
hewlett-packard was a standout gainer among the blue-chip and technology issues, rising 2\ to 59}. the company reported earnings for its fiscal quarter ended jan. 31 of 71 cents a share, up from 45 cents in the comparable period a year earlier
lomas &amp; nettleton financial fell 1\ to 15] on top of a 1[-point drop wednesday, when the company said it would take a charge of about $93 million in the current quarter in connection with moves to cease its homebuilding operations and restructure its mortgage banking division
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks rose .03 to 145.75. at the american stock exchange, the market value index was down .34 at 278.75
volume on the big board came to 70.42 million shares at noontime, against 89.25 million at the same point wednesday
grain and soybean futures opened mostly lower today on the chicago board of trade
soybean prices fell on profit-taking from wednesday's sharp gains and in reaction to an increase in farmer selling of soybeans, analysts said
soybean futures advanced as much as 13} cents a bushel wednesday, partly in reaction to a paul harvey radio commentary about a ``sudden-death syndrome'' affecting soybean crops. the story turned out to be based on research findings that were first reported nearly two years ago
speculative buying limited the losses in soybeans this morning, said richard loewy, senior grain and oilseed analyst for the investment firm prudential-bache securities inc. in new york
the market's not breaking as much as it could have, so there's some underlying strength,'' loewy said
corn prices also retreated on increased farmer sales, while wheat prices declined in follow-through selling from wednesday, analysts said
in early trading, wheat was } cent to 1{ cents lower with the contract for delivery in march at $3.26\ a bushel; corn was } cent to 2\ cents lower with march at $2.00\ a bushel; oats were } cent lower to { cent higher with march at $1.91 a bushel; soybeans were 2{ cents to 3{ cents lower with march at $6.30 a bushel
livestock and meat futures were mixed to lower in early trading on the chicago mercantile exchange
live cattle were .20 cent lower to .08 cent higher with february at 71.60 cents a pound; feeder cattle were .10 cent to .45 cent lower with march at 83.42 cents a pound; hogs were .10 cent to .42 cent lower with february at 46.85 cents a pound; frozen pork bellies were .28 cent to .48 cent higher with february at 56.00 cents a pound
live cattle futures advanced on wednesday while other livestock and meat futures settled mostly lower
lomas &amp; nettleton financial corp., citing a downturn in the nation's housing market, says it plans to shut down half its mortgage banking operations and cut about 20 percent of its workforce
the dallas company, which is the nation's largest independent mortgage banker, said it would take a $93 million charge in the current quarter as a result of its restructuring plans
lomas said it expects to lose about $69 million for the three fiscal quarters ended march 31 and about $55 million for the year
lomas president james wooten said wednesday that the company planned to close offices in more than 30 of the 65 cities in which its mortgage branch operates, and lay off 500 of its 2,650 employees. the company also cut nearly 1,000 employees last year
although final decisions have not been made on which offices to eliminate, several are expected to be in the midwest and southeast, wooten said
the company also said it plans to divest itself of a small, virtually inactive home-building company, braewood homes of dallas
lomas' problems stem from a downturn in the housing industry nationwide, which has slowed new mortgage originations
the mortgage bankers association, a trade group, estimates there will be between $320 billion and $330 billion in mortgages originated nationwide in 1988, a decline from the $430 billion originated in 1987
at the same time, more homeowners have fallen behind on their payments, and more of the company's existing loans are delinquent, wooten said
by far the biggest portion of it (the restructuring) is the result of bankruptcies and foreclosures that have just kept on keeping on,'' he said. ``rather than whittle it as you go, you've got to build a reserve for it and start recovering from it.''
kenneth campbell, an analyst with audit investments inc. of montvale, n.j., said lomas is not alone in its troubles
other mortgage bankers are seeing the same thing. they've either cut back on offices or staffing. the whole industry has been slammed into reverse,'' he said
midland bank plc, one of britain's big four commercial banks, said thursday it suffered a huge loss during 1987, due to the october stock market crash and its decision to raise its loan-loss provision to cover shaky third world debt
the bank said it lost 456 million pounds, or about $798 million, last year, compared with a net profit of about $424 million in 1986
midland took a charge of $1.79 billion in the middle of last year for an increase in its loan-loss provisions. but it said an extraordinary gain of $110 million, on which it wouldn't elaborate, helped narrow the 1987 loss
excluding the loan-loss provision charge, midland said, its pre-tax profit would have been about $894 million
several major u.s. banks also reported a severe drop in 1987 earnings or losses due to their decision to build up provisions for loan losses. the banks' goal was to establish a cushion to protect future earnings from loans that must be writen off or disposed of at a loss
the action was taken after brazil, the developing world's biggest debtor, halted interest payments on its international bank debt a year ago. the banks also cited continuing economic woes in third wrold countries and a series of debt restructurings
midland also said ``losses incurred by (the) institutional equities business were ... a serious setback, but we believe our investment banking operations as a whole weathered the financial storms of 1987, especially the period since october,'' when worldwide equity markets collapsed
midland said it began a cost-cutting program at the end of last year
in november, the bank announced that hongkong &amp; shanghai banking corp. would take a 14.9 percent stake in midland and that the two banks would collaborate on a number of activities
last summer, the company sold additional stock. reaction</note>
president reagan today sent congress a $1.09 trillion conciliatory, election-year budget combining his most restrained military request ever with proposals for more spending on education, science and the fight against aids
in presenting this budget, i am keeping my end of the bargain. i call upon congress to uphold its end,'' reagan said in the eighth, and for practical purposes, final budget of his presidency
unlike earlier reagan budgets, the new document embodies an agreement on spending priorities already reached with congress
reagan's 1989 budget calls for reducing the federal deficit from $150.2 billion last year and the $146.7 billion estimated for 1988 to $129.5 billion in the fiscal year that begins next oct. 1
that's even below the target of $136 billion called for in the gramm-rudman deficit-reduction law. when reagan took office in 1981 with a promise to balance the budget within three years the annual deficit stood at $78 billion
at a white house photo session with congressional leaders, reagan extolled the budget for not increasing taxes while increasing spending to battle illicit drugs and aids
with a pile of blue budget documents stacked before him on the table, reagan said he hoped the white house and congress ``can work together through this budget process this year, sticking to our agreement and completing the appropriation process before the end of this fiscal year.''
leaving a white house meeting with reagan, the democrats who head the house and senate budget committees said the budget was better than past reagan efforts. sen. lawton chiles, r-fla., said, ``i think it's a good faith budget. it looks like it meets the (budget) summit agreements. it's right at the targets.'' but chiles said congress would not agree to sell off so many government assets as reagan wants
the house budget chairman, rep. william h. gray, d-pa., said, ``there are some better domestic priorities than in the past. however, there still are some problems areas, such as the willingness to build more houses in space as opposed to housing here on earth.''
in today's budget message, reagan conceded the new document ``does not fully reflect my priorities, nor, presumably, those of any particular member of congress.''
but, citing ``give and take on all sides,'' reagan told congress: ``the goal of deficit reduction through spending reduction must be paramount.''
the two-year budget pact struck with congress last november, in the wake of the stock market collapse, sets limits for both military increases and social program cuts and restricts new taxes to the $14 billion already passed for 1989 by congress
because of this prior agreement, reagan's fiscal 1989 budget was expected to generate few fireworks on arrival at capitol hill. and budget leaders played down prospects of a major election-year budget fracas
the new reagan budget contends that the ``economy has shown few signs of serious damage'' from last october's stock market plunge, and that the recent boom in exports holds out the promise of continued economic expansion
in fact, the new reagan budget assumes a declining rate of inflation, falling interest rates and economic growth of 2.4 percent this year and 3.5 percent next year. this projection is more optimistic than forecasts by congressional budget analysts and private forecasters but closer to their predictions than in previous years
however, if growth is even one percentage point less than reagan's forecast, the deficit would rise an additional $6.3 billion in 1989 and $18 billion in 1990, the budget report conceded
reagan's new budget proposed military spending authority of $299.5 billion in fiscal 1989 and actual outlays for the year of $294 billion _ up from $291.4 billion in 1988 in budget authority and $285.4 billion in outlays
that increase, which doesn't even keep pace with last year's 4.4 percent increase in inflation, represents the smallest military spending increase ever sent to congress by reagan. it is likely to result in reductions in some of the military forces and weapons programs that have grown substantially since he became president
anything less would jeopardize not only our security ... but would also dim the prospects for further negotiated agreements with our adversaries,'' reagan said
reagan's budget recycles a number of favorite administration proposals for reducing government programs
these include the abolition of the interstate commerce commission, the economic development administration, small business administration direct loans, urban development action grants and public subsidies for amtrak rail passenger service and mass transit systems
in addition, reagan again proposed the sale naval petroleum reserves and some regional power-marketing authorities _ including the alaska power administration
even though these ``privatization'' efforts have never gained much support in congress, reagan expanded the concept this year by proposing, for the first time, the sale of waste treatment plants, mass transit projects and the rural telephone bank. in addition, he asked for studies of ``possible privatization'' of some postal service operations and the government's uranium enrichment facilities
however, this year, the administration backed away from some of the more politically controversial proposals of past reagan budgets _ including abolition of the legal services corp. and sale of the bonneville power adminstration
at the same time, the president laced his 1989 request with a number of items certain to be politically palatable _ including nearly $2 billion in spending authority to combat ``the scourge of aids,'' a 38 percent increase over 1988 levels
in addition, reagan _ who last year caused congressional consternation by proposing sharp cuts in education spending _ proposed a $1.5 billion increase in education outlays, a rise of 8 percent, well over inflation
the new budget also earmarked $1.6 billion in spending authority to upgrade the nation's air control system and a $430 million increase for the ``superfund'' program to clean up hazardous waste sites
other new proposals for spending authority in reagan's 1989 budget:
_ a request for $437 million, more than double last year's budget, for federal prison constructon to relieve overcrowding
_ a 13 percent increase, to $3.9 billion, for drug law enforcement and treatment programs
_ a request for $11.5 billion for space programs, including the program to orbit a manned space station and to improve the ``performance and reliability'' of the space shuttle
_ spending of $363 million to begin construction of the superconducting super collider, ``the largest pure science project ever undertaken.''
_ stepped up law enforcement efforts, with a focus on white collar crime, organized crime and terrorism
_ full funding for a $2.5 billion, five-year program to combat acid rain
although the budget proposal would come in under the $136 billion deficit ceiling specified by the gramm-rudman law, part of the savings would be accomplished with the sale of federal assets _ including about $12 billion in federal loans
under the budget agreement, asset sales cannot be fully counted toward meeting the deficit reduction target. taking out these sales, the reagan budget would result in a deficit of about $143 billion
that would still be within the bounds allowed by the law, which says the 1989 deficit can be as high as $146 billion without triggering automatic spending cuts
prices on the london stock exchange fell thursday after a weak early trend on wall street compounded earlier worries about inflationary pressure on the british economy
the financial times-stock exchange 100-stock index closed down 12 points, or 0.69 percent, at 1736.1
the market was depressed during the morning by the release of economic data that pointed to increased inflationary pressure on the economy. the figures revived worries of a further increase in base lending rates
the market was especially concerned by an increase in bank lending last month
share prices fell to the day's low during the afternoon because of a weak early trend on wall street, dealers said
domestic automakers were scheduled to produce 218,586 cars and trucks this week, up from last week's 215,166, ward's automotive reports said thursday
automakers produced 245,464 cars and trucks during the same week a year ago. they were were scheduled to make 133,552 cars this week, compared with 134,367 a week ago and 171,161 in the same week in 1987
truck production for the week was scheduled at 85,034, compared with last week's 80,799 and last year's 73,703
canadian automakers were to build 24,150 cars this week, compared with 21,739 last week and 20,540 in the same week last year. canadian truck production was scheduled at 19,895, compared with 18,886 last week and 17,859 in the same week last year. earnings</head>
b.f. goodrich co. said thursday its fourth-quarter profit jumped 58 percent from a year earlier, partly because of higher sales in its key polyvinyl chloride plastic business
goodrich said it earned $20.5 million, or 73 cents a share, in the three months ended dec. 31 compared with $13 million, or 51 cents a share, earned during the same period of 1986
fourth-quarter sales were $567.3 million, compared with $491.3 million during the same period in 1986
sales of polyvinyl chloride and intermediates rose 26.4 percent to $273.4 million during the quarter, the company said in a news release. goodrich also reported a 25 percent boost in sales of specialty chemicals, to $181.4 million
sales of industrial products were down 36.4 percent, while sales of aerospace and defense products dropped 4.7 percent, goodrich said
rising polyvinyl chloride sales also were credited with more than tripling goodrich's annual profit, although total company sales declined. net income for 1987 was $105 million, or $4.06 a share, compared with $32.7 million, or $1.32 a share, in 1986
annual revenue fell to $2.2 billion from $2.5 billion in 1986
the 1986 results included $660 million in tire sales before the formation of the company's uniroyal goodrich tire co. joint venture
our 1987 results are a clear confirmation that the restructuring of the company is achieving the goals that were previously set,'' said john d. ong, goodrich chairman and chief executive officer
our core businesses produced operating income at record levels despite significantly increased investments in research and development and in marketing,'' ong said
mail cutbacks, forced by federal budget reductions, are starting to be felt by customers who are finding some windows closed at post offices and their out-of-town mail being delayed
post offices dropped their third shift on sundays starting last weekend, said postal service spokeswoman meg harris. the group works from about 3 p.m. to midnight and sorts mail bound to other cities
the move is expected to save between $55 million and $60 million toward covering the $160 million the agency has to absorb in cuts in the current fiscal year, she said
in addition, $50 million is expected to be saved by closing post office window services for a half-day a week, with the balance to come from cuts in transportation, management travel, training and other expenditures
dropping the third-shift of mail processing on sundays is expected to primarily affect mail going out of town, said harris. she said sundays were chosen for the cut because that is the day when the least mail is deposited in the system
the first and second shifts, which generally sort mail for delivery within the city where the office is located, are remaining at work on sundays, harris said
the postal service closed most of its post offices on the saturdays following christmas and new year to cut costs, and now has instituted a local program of closing a half-day a week. the decision on when to close is being left to local managers
in general, postal managers have said they do not expect the cutbacks to have a major effect on mail delivery, although elimination of some sorting on sunday could slow outgoing mail
over the next 21 months the postal service will have to trim $430 million from its operating budget and also has had to either postpone or scrap $1.7 billion in capital construction and purchasing because of the budget cuts imposed by congress
there has been disagreement over how postal workers will be affected. postal officials have said they do not expect any layoffs, while union leaders contend that the cutbacks could result in loss of several thousand jobs nationwide
the stock market hovered in a narrow range today, continuing the sluggish pattern of wednesday's session
the dow jones average of 30 industrials edged up .83 to 2,001.82 by 2 p.m. on wall street
losers slightly outnumbered gainers in the overall tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 683 up, 706 down and 511 unchanged
analysts said there was little in the economic news to prompt traders to take big positions either way
the market rallied last week and monday as some of investors' worst fears about the business outlook eased
but expectations for economic growth and corporate profits remain subdued, and many market participants are evidently reluctant to buy stocks with the dow hovering around the 2,000 level
speculation has also died down lately that the federal reserve will take any new steps in the immediate future to relax its credit policy
hewlett-packard was a standout gainer among the blue-chip and technology issues, rising 2 to 59{. the company reported earnings for its fiscal quarter ended jan. 31 of 71 cents a share, up from 45 cents in the comparable period a year earlier
lomas &amp; nettleton financial fell 1 to 15| on top of a 1[-point drop wednesday, when the company said it would take a charge of about $93 million in the current quarter in connection with moves to cease its homebuilding operations and restructure its mortgage banking division
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks rose .12 to 145.84. at the american stock exchange, the market value index was down .26 at 278.83
volume on the big board came to 105.62 million shares with two hours to go
the minneapolis area will soon be at the center of an attempt to use one of the world's fastest supercomputers to dramatically reduce guesswork in economic forecasting
if successful, the three-year project using a cray research inc. supercomputer could make businesses, consumers and workers less vulnerable to blunders caused by faulty assumptions about the nation's economy
in recent years, supercomputers have produced revolutionary solutions to complex problems in engineering, chemistry, physics, biology, meteorology and other disciplines
computers have been less successful in economic forecasting, and some economists argue that the problems are so complex that they cannot simply through faster ``number crunching.''
arthur rolnick, director of research at the federal reserve bank of minneapolis, said: ``in the long run, the supercomputer research should mean a smoother-running economy with fewer government mistakes. that's the objective. that's the hope.''
the supercomputer project, to be conducted at the university of minnesota's institute for empirical macroeconomics, will make minnesota a magnet for top economic thinkers from around the world
the institute already has applications from as far away as england and australia from scholars seeking one of several resident fellowships to work with supercomputers, said david runkle, the institute's associate director
ten to 15 economic researchers from the minneapolis fed and the university of minnesota will take part in the supercomputer research, a study that will begin sometime this year
this is path-breaking work,'' said daniel newlon, economics program director at the national science foundation, which is reviewing an application to finance a large share of the supercomputer research. the balance of the tab would be picked up by the minneapolis fed
the minneapolis-based cray is donating free access to a supercomputer
newlon said the project promises to bring together public and private economic forecasters, who make their living predicting the future, with researchers who are on the frontier of using supercomputers to expand economic thinking
what could emerge from this is a new generation of policy, analytical and forecasting tools that will dramatically improve our ability to understand and forecast the way the economy performs,'' he said
in computerized economic forecasting, a computer sifts through millions of pieces of information about the behavior of thousands of businesses and millions of consumers. in this process, the computer tries to simulate changes in the economy in the face of changing circumstances
christopher sims, director of the macroeconomics institute, said the mammoth memory and rapid pace of a supercomputer will vastly increase the number of pieces of information that a computer simulation of the economy could store and manipulate
if all goes well, cray and other supercomputer makers could find a whole new market among economists and other social scientists
james h. ottaway jr., a senior vice president of dow jones &amp; co. inc., has been appointed to the additional posts of president of the company's magazine and international groups, the company said thursday
ottaway will report to peter r. kann, a dow jones executive vice president, his predecessor in the two posts, who will be freed to spend more time overseeing the wall street journal group
ottaway remains in charge of the affiliated companies group, supervising ottaway newspapers, the company's newsprint-mill interests and certain other investments
dow jones also announced the appointment of robert r. paradise as associate publisher of barron's magazine, effective june 1
royale belge sa, a leading belgian insurance company, said thursday it had sold its 3.75 percent stake in societe generale de belgique sa to banque generale du luxembourg
a spokesman for royale belge declined to disclose the terms of the sale
societe generale, belgium's largest holding company, is the target of a hostile takeover bid by italian financier carlo de benedetti
de benedetti claims he controls 38 percent of societe generale's 28.2 million shares outstanding and has launched a bid for another 15 percent
societe generale closed at 4,920 francs a share on thursday, about $140.58, down from 5,000 francs on wednesday
royale belge's main shareholders are groupe bruxelles lambert sa, which is belgium's second largest holding company, and union des assurances de paris, a major french insurer
the royale belge spokesman said his company still had a small stake in a societe generale unit sodecom, which is a vehicle for a contested share issue societe generale is trying to launch to dilute de benedetti's stake in the company. cases</head>
severe insider-trading penalties are damaging new cases by discouraging potential defendants from cooperating, a top official of the securities and exchange commission was quoted as saying thursday
gary lynch, sec enforcement director and one of the architects behind an aggressive campaign against wall street corruption, was quoted as saying in an interview that the prospect of imprisonment, civil fines and financial ruin is convincing some people ``it's better to hunker down than cooperate.''
it was unclear from lynch's remarks whether he was suggesting less stringent sanctions against insider trading, the illicit use of nonpublic information to profit in securities transactions
lynch spoke to ``the wall street journal report,'' a weekly television program of business and financial news produced by dow jones &amp; co., publisher of the wall street journal
the company released a partial transcript of his remarks, to be broadcast this sunday, one year since the feb. 20, 1987 sentencing of dennis b. levine, a former investment banker whose arrest for massive insider trading infractions spawned a widespread federal investigation
levine, who cooperated with the government, was forced to relinquish $11.6 million in illicit profits. he received a criminal punishment of two years imprisonment and a $362,000 fine
we're getting less cooperation today,'' lynch was quoted as saying in response to a question about what has changed in the past year that has made the investigation easier or more difficult
more people are asserting their fifth amendment rights and not cooperating,'' he was quoted as saying. ``so we're not able to ask basic questions about contact, and that's certainly their constitutional right, but it does make it more difficult to put together information for an investigation.''
asked for further explanation, lynch was quoted as saying: ``it was one thing when people had to be concerned about a civil action by the sec and perhaps the disgorgement of money
it's another thing, when you talk about putting them out of business completely and, not getting disgorgement of profits, but a civil penalty as well and then subjecting them to the possibility of time in federal prison. so, add it all up and some lawyers are advising their clients: it's better to hunker down than cooperate.''
lynch was traveling abroad until monday and unavailable to comment about the interview, his office said
sec spokeswoman mary mccue, who didn't attend the interview, said ``i've heard gary say before that there is more hunkering down, so i would not dispute that, but i don't know if i would make that the greatest news release that ever hit the pike.''
levine's cooperation led investigators to ivan f. boesky, once one of wall street's most powerful stock speculators. he paid a record $100 million to settle civil charges of insider trading in november 1986 and was sentenced to a three-year criminal term last december
although boesky and levine are said to have implicated a number of other wall street professionals in illegal activity, there have been no significant arrests in the past year
taiwanese trade concessions made under u.s. pressure are profoundly changing this prosperous island, enraging businessmen who face stiffer competition and delighting consumers who find lower price tags on foreign goods
the united states, which ran up a record trade deficit last year, has pressured taiwan to cut its hefty tariffs and revalue its currency. roughly one-tenth of the $171.2 billion u.s. deficit came from trade with taiwan
since the united states is taiwan's most important political ally and receives nearly half of taiwan's exports, washington's wishes cannot be ignored
we want to maintain our export market in the united states so we must take more positive measures to help solve the trade problems (between the two countries),'' economic affairs minister lee ta-hai told a recent legislative session
after decades of closely linking the taiwan dollar to the u.s. dollar, taiwan authorities have allowed their currency to rise about 40 percent against the u.s. dollar since january 1986
the changing exchange rate makes taiwan goods more expensive overseas and american products cheaper in taiwan
taiwan also recently reduced tariffs on 3,500 agricultural and industrial products in a sweeping move that cut the average duty on imported goods to an estimated 3.8 percent from 7.5 percent, although tariffs on some goods remain much higher
u.s. officials, however, have indicated they want even further trade concessions from taiwan and asia's other newly industrialized countries _ hong kong, singapore and south korea. that upsets taiwanese who believe the trade concessions already have hurt the country, whose exports account for 58 percent of gross national product
in a poll conducted by the mass-circulation china times and published at the end of 1987, about 350 people out of nearly 1,000 interviewed chose the united states as the most unfriendly nation to taiwan. that was more than double the number of people who picked communist china, taiwan's arch rival
our 40 years of endeavors may be wiped out in these one or two years,'' grumbled david hong, president of k-moebel co., a sporting goods manufacturer whose 140-member work force was cut in half to reduce costs as the rising taiwan dollar squeezed profits
hong said the united states' decision in january to remove duty-free and preferential tariffs on taiwan products would make business even more difficult
i am worried that mainland chinese products, which will continue to enjoy the preferential tariffs, may gradually take over,'' he said
businessmen argue that the taiwan government has made too many trade concessions too quickly under u.s. pressure, giving labor-intensive local industries little time to adjust
farmers also say the government has sacrificed their interests to please the united states by cutting tariffs on farm products. thousands of farmers descended on taipei last december to protest sharply lowered fruit prices
but taiwan's policy changes have not all been painful
taiwan citizens generally welcome the government's tariff cuts on a wide variety of foreign products, which have long been too expensive for most people to afford
an estimated 8,000 american passenger cars were sold to taiwan last year, an eightfold increase from the year before but still representing only 4 percent of the domestic market. total imported cars sales increased an estimated 35 percent
imports of some american home appliances and many other goods more than doubled last year. u.s. goods accounted for an estimated 5 percent of color televisions sold, 14 percent of refrigerators, 21 percent of washing machines and 8 percent of cigarettes
american cars are no longer considered as expensive, bulky and gasoline-consuming. many people are buying them now as the second family car,'' said auto dealer sherry yang
office managers, secretaries and salesmen armed with fatter paychecks are buying buicks, skyhawks and cieras that once were only within the reach of the most wealthy. a skyhawk sells for about 700,000 taiwan dollars, or $25,000, about 30 percent cheaper than two years ago
many people are finding for the first time they can afford american products,'' said dustine wang, a dealer of whirlpool, general electric and westinghouse home appliances, which used to be more than twice as expensive as local products
i did not hesitate at all in buying it,'' wu pei-pei said of her new whirlpool washer. ''i know it is more endurable, has a larger capacity and not much more expensive'' than her old taiwan-made machine
recent statistics indicate the trade gap is narrowing
taiwan's january trade surplus of $843 million with the united states was the lowest since february 1986
with its january exports of $1.2 billion, the united states replaced japan for the first time since 1963 as the country selling the most goods to taiwan
but the trade battle between the two countries is not yet finished. local newspapers, with dispatches from washington, said u.s. officials indicated they would ask taiwan to further appreciate its currency after the one-month state mourning period for president chiang ching-kuo, who died jan. 13 of heart failure
the local media also have reported that u.s. agricultural officials have protested against planned measures by taiwan authorities to protect local farmers against foreign competition
american airlines has sparked a new round of air fare increases by boosting some one-way coach fares by $5 and first-class tickets by $10, effective saturday, officials said
delta, united and braniff airlines are among those who matched the increases that american said wednesday would affect most tickets except advance-purchase fares, the cheapest available for air travel
we felt that a slight, upward fare adjustment was economically justified at this time,'' american spokesman al becker said at the company's headquarters here
houston-based continental, which in the past year has served as the industry's price leader, matched the fare hikes in a few markets, said company spokesman doug birdsall
he said continental will continue studying the markets where it has not yet raised fares
the higher prices will affect mostly business travelers and people traveling because of a personal emergency or some other spur-of-the-moment reason, officials said
the price increases will affect:
_many coach and first-class fares for non-stop flights between major cities, including dallas, new york, chicago, kansas city, denver, san francisco and los angeles
_most unrestricted _ and unadvertised _ one-way discount fares
_some round-trip discount fares with advance-purchase requirements of up to 14 days and cancellation penalties of up to 50 percent
american's higher fares will mean, for example, that an unrestricted coach ticket to los angeles or washington, d.c., from dallas will cost $410 one way instead of $405. a discounted, unrestricted coach ticket will cost $214 on those routes, up from $209
j.c. penney co. inc. on thursday reported an increase in its fourth quarter profit despite a slight drop in sales, while another major retailer, carter hawley hale stores inc., said it had stronger second quarter earnings
penney, based in new york, said net income for the three months ended jan. 30 rose 10 percent, to $280 million, or $1.93 a share, from $253 million, or $1.80, during the same period a year ago
sales totaled $4.94 billion, down from $4.98 billion
for its fiscal year, the giant retailer's net income totaled $608 million, or $4.11 a share, on sales of $15.33 billion. that compared with earnings of $478 million, or $3.53, and sales of $14.74 billion
los angeles-based carter hawley netted $20.4 million, or 94 cents per share, on sales of $866 million for the three months ended jan. 30. a year ago, it lost $24.2 million on sales of $995.1 million, reflecting a major restructuring
the company earned $31.1 million, or $1.33 per share, during the first half of its fiscal year, vs. a deficit of $7.8 million in the previous year. sales fell to $1.48 billion from $1.7 billion
penney chairman william r. howell said the company's retail operations achieved record results during 1987 despite fierce competition during the lucrative christmas holiday season. the company's catalog operations also were especially strong throughout the year, he said
howell said penney was able to cut many expenses during the fiscal year, particularly in personnel and advertising. as a result of the 1986 tax law, income taxes were cut by $17 million in the fourth quarter, he said
howell said the company was ``well positioned to respond to consumer buying patterns'' in 1988
the expansion of women's apparel offerings and the continued strengthening of men's and children's apparel will result in significant opportunities for stores and catalog,'' he said in a statement
carter hawley's results for last year included a loss of $29.3 million in both the quarter and half for early retirement of debt, although this year's results reflected sharly higher interest payments because of debt linked to its restructuring
as part of the restructuring, the company spun off its higher-end specialty-store operations. it also sold its john wanamaker chain and two broadway-southwest stores in august 1987
carter hawley's stores include broadway, emporium capwell, thalheimers and weinstock's department stores
mississippi police are investigating allegations that american tobacco co. tampered with the jury in a cigarette liability case that ended in a mistrial last month, the los angeles times reported thursday
at issue are allegations that two employees of american's legal defense team contacted three jurors during the trial, frank carlton, district attorney for mississippi's 4th judicial district, told the times
carlton said if the contacts did occur, they probably were improper but not ``an outright attempt to ... affect the outcome of the trial.''
the allegations were made in affidavits gathered by attorneys for the family of nathan h. horton, who died at age 50 of lung cancer after smoking american's pall mall cigarettes for more than 30 years
horton's family filed a $16.5 million suit in lexington, mass., against the cigarette maker. the suit ended in a hung jury jan. 29
in the affidavits, two jurors said they were called during the trial by employees of american tobacco's legal team and and told of a change in scheduling. other affidavits said an american tobacco adviser boasted of receiving $2,700 for his work and was seen talking to a third juror
the company's lead lawyer, james upshaw, termed the affidavits ``absurb'' and ``an absolutely pathetic effort to get some type of publicity.''
grain and soybean futures closed mostly lower thursday in a modest sell-off on the chicago board of trade
soybeans led the decline in reaction to reduced demand for soybean meal, analysts said. many traders also took profits after wednesday's sharp advance in soybean futures, analysts said
increased farmer selling of soybeans also pressured futures prices, but the losses were limited by news of new soybean oil sales to india and expectations for more export business, said richard loewy, an analyst in new york for prudential-bache securities inc
based on the profit-taking which could have ensued, you're still looking at good underlying strength'' in the soybean market, loewy said
corn prices followed soybeans lower, while wheat prices retreated on expectations of adequate near-term supplies, he said
at the close, wheat was { cent to 5\ cents lower with the contract for delivery in march at $3.22{ a bushel; corn was unchanged to 1{ cents lower with march at $2.00} a bushel; oats were \ cent lower to { cent higher with march at $1.91} a bushel; soybeans were 4 cents to 6 cents lower with march at $6.28 a bushel
chemlawn services corp., the ohio-based lawn care service, uses ``fraudulent, deceptive and illegal'' advertising regarding pesticide safety, the state attorney charged wednesday in a lawsuit calling for a halt to the ads and a fine for false advertising
the lawsuit, filed in manhattan state supreme court, charged chemlawn advertising made claims ``not supported by scientific evidence or valid in only a narrow, technical sense.''
the filing by attorney general robert abrams came three weeks after chemlawn filed suit against the attorney general over his allegations and asked a supreme court judge to determine whether the advertising was misleading
the company and abrams have been arguing for months over the contents of chemlawn advertising; the attorney general notified the company in november of his impending lawsuit
we have a right to distribute accurate information about our product,'' said steve hardymon, a chemlawn spokesman. ``the attorney general has been harassing us for the last year. we just got tired of it, and asked a judge to make the final decision on the ads.''
hardymon had not seen abrams' filing wednesday, and could not comment on his specific charges
the attorney general alleged that because information is not available about the chronic, long-term effects of many pesticides, chemlawn could not guarantee full safety
abrams specifically cited one ad as false and misleading after it promised, ``a person would have to ingest over 40 cupfuls of lawn clippings treated with chemlawn to equal the toxicity of a single cup of coffee.''
the stock market showed no clear trend today, continuing the sluggish pattern of wednesday's session
the dow jones average of 30 industrials dropped 3.15 to 1,997.84 by 3 p.m. on wall street
gainers and losers were evenly balanced in the overall tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 722 up, 722 down and 495 unchanged
analysts said there was little in the economic news to prompt traders to take big positions either way
the market rallied last week and monday as some of investors' worst fears about the business outlook eased
but expectations for economic growth and corporate profits remain subdued, and many market participants are evidently reluctant to buy stocks with the dow hovering around the 2,000 level
speculation has also died down lately that the federal reserve will take any new steps in the immediate future to relax its credit policy
hewlett-packard was a standout gainer among the blue-chip and technology issues, rising 2[ to 59|. the company reported earnings for its fiscal quarter ended jan. 31 of 71 cents a share, up from 45 cents in the comparable period a year earlier
lomas &amp; nettleton financial fell 1] to 15\ on top of a 1[-point drop wednesday, when the company said it would take a charge of about $93 million in the current quarter in connection with moves to cease its homebuilding operations and restructure its mortgage banking division
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks rose .05 to 145.77. at the american stock exchange, the market value index was down .35 at 278.74
volume on the big board came to 120.82 million shares with an hour to go
british petroleum co. plc said its fourth-quarter earnings rose by 95 percent, under the accounting standard used by most u.s. oil companies, with profits bolstered by stronger gains in refined products, chemicals and minerals
the world oil giant, which acquired full ownership of cleveland-based standard oil co. last year, said it earned 394 million pounds, or $683 million, compared with 202 million pounds, or $281 million, in the fourth quarter of 1986
earnings per share totaled 81.6 pence, compared with 44 pence a year earlier. earnings per american depositary receipt, each of which equals four shares, were $1.42, vs. 61 cents in the fourth quarter of 1986
sales totaled 6.8 billion pounds, or $12 billion, in the october-through-december period vs. 6.6 billion pounds, or $9.4 billion, in the 1986 fourth quarter, the london-based company said
for the full year, the company said it earned 1.3 billion pounds, or $2.1 billion, compared with 1.8 billion pounds, or $2.6 billion
earnings per share totaled 208.8 pence, compared with 388.4 pence in 1986. earnings per american depositary receipt totaled $4.61 last year, compared with $5.72 in 1986, when the dollar was stronger
revenue for all of 1987 totaled 27.6 billion pounds, or $45.2 billion, up from 27.2 billion pounds, or $39.9 billion, in 1986
the figures are based on the ``replacement cost'' system of accounting, which is most directly comparable to the last-in-first-out system used by virtually all major u.s. oil companies
under this method, the value of inventories is listed according to their market value at the time they are used and must be replaced
by tradition, however, bp also uses the ``historical cost'' method of accounting, under which inventories are valued at their original cost on a first-in-first-out basis
in its report issued thursday, bp said that under the historical cost method, its profit rose 10.2 percent, to 260 million pounds, or $471 million, in the fourth quarter, from 236 million pounds, or $341 million in the last quarter of 1986
the results included a loss of 134 million pounds, or $212 million, on the value of inventories over that period
for the year, the company said it earned 1.4 billion pounds, or $2.3 billion, under the historical cost method, compared with 817 million pounds, or $1.2 billion in 1986
earnings per share totaled 298.8 pence in 1987, vs. 178.4 pence in 1986. earnings per adr totaled $4.61, compared with $5.72
despite a substantial fall in the dollar against sterling and softening of oil prices in the last quarter, our results for 1987 represent a robust performance in a difficult year,'' said bp chairman sir peter walters
the stock market turned downward near the close of a quiet session today as traders apparently shied away from the 2,000 level in the dow jones industrial average
analysts said there was little in the economic news to prompt traders to take big positions either way
the market rallied last week and monday as some of investors' worst fears about the business outlook eased
but expectations for economic growth and corporate profits remain subdued, and many market participants were evidently reluctant to buy stocks with the dow hovering around the 2,000 level
speculation has also died down lately that the federal reserve will take any new steps in the immediate future to relax its credit policy
international business machines corp. researchers have made the world's fastest dynamic memory computer chips, the company said wednesday at a research conference in san francisco
the experimental chips can retrieve a bit of information in 20 billionths of a second, three times as fast as the current generation of so-called d-ram chips
d-ram chips are the most common kind of memory chips in computers. they are more compact and cheaper but also slower than static random access memory chips, known as s-rams
separately, ibm said it had built an experimental s-ram chip that can retrieve information in a record 11 billionths of a second. it announced another experimental s-ram capable of storing 1 million bits of information, unprecedented for that kind of chip
the announcements were made at the annual international solid-state circuits conference, an event that draws top researchers from the united states, europe and japan
a meat industry group has asked the government to investigate whether south korea has violated international trade practices through its 3-year-old ban on imports of u.s. beef
the american meat institute said it filed a complaint tuesday with the office of the u.s. trade representative, contending south korea's import ban is ``unjustifiable, unreasonable and burden or restrict united states commerce.'' the ami said the import ban is actionable under section 301 of the trade act of 1974
manly molpus, president of ami, said that historically the united states was the major supplier of high-quality beef to south korea, a market that averaged about $5 million a year
molpus said south korea was in violation of obligations under the general agreement on tariffs and trade and under tariff concessions agreed to in the tokyo round of multilateral trade negotiations. year</head>
the venezuelan government foresees trouble in making foreign loan payments this year but a top government official denied wednesday the country will seek new terms for repaying $20 billion in refinanced debt
we will make every effort this year to prevent a significant drop in international reserves, but this will depend on oil prices,'' finance minister hector hurtado told a press conference
we think we can partially cover the oil price drop,'' hurtado said
petroleos de venezuela president juan chacin guzman said recently the state oil company will earn around $15 per barrel on its oil exports in the first half of the year, or $1.70 less than the company's $16.70 per barrel estimate for the year
the drop means around $1 billion less in oil income, according to private estimates
the oil company originally estimated oil earnings this year of $9.6 billion, while other exports could reach $1.3 billion
hurtado said the government would be paying around $3.5 billion this year in interest and principal on its $32 billion foreign debt. it will amortize $400 million of refinanced debt
renegotiations (on the refinanced debt) make no sense while we continue to pay interest,'' hurtado said
he said the drop in oil income will be partially covered by $300 million more from exports of aluminum and gold
the government will also press for multilateral loans and foreign direct investment, and it is considering additional issues of dollar-denominated bonds, he said
last week the government launched a $100 million eurobond issue aimed at venezuelan investors
the government recently reduced the private sector import budget to around $7.2 billion but indicated there could be further cuts
the central bank's foreign reserves were $9.3 billion at year-end 1987, including $3.5 billion of operating reserves
the nation is in technical default of its refinancing agreement if operative reserves fall below $2 billion
a bailout plan in the $1.4 billion collapse of real estate syndicator equity programs investment corp. is expected to continue despite the financial problems of epic's major mortgage insurer, officials said wednesday
however, the decision last month by tmic insurance corp. to halt claims payments put into default 6,600 of epic's properties with unpaid balances of $485 million. deeds to those properties were offered to lenders in lieu of foreclosure, said john cross of skyline financial services corp
that means the lender assumes ownership, rather than the partnerships that had been formed by epic to buy the properties
virginia-based skyline has been hired to oversee the sale of epic's properties. the number already had been reduced to 12,500 from 20,000 in the past two years before the tmic default
cross said the epic bailout was expected to proceed despite tmic's difficulties
meanwhile, state insurance commissioner roxani gillespie said talks are under way between her agency, the federal national mortgage association (fannie mae) and private mortgage companies in efforts to rescue tmic and the epic bailout plan
a new actuarial study indicating how deep tmic's troubles are is expected to be completed later this month, ms. gillespie said wednesday
fannie mae, a major purchaser of mortgages from epic, was the lead agency in arranging the epic bailout plan
tmic is a subsidiary of the nation's leading title insurer, ticor, and has been operating under state conservatorship since april 1986
the bulk of tmic's problems stemmed from the collapse of epic
tmic had insured about 45 percent of the 20,000 mortgages worth $1.4 billion syndicated by epic as tax shelters for the well-heeled. in 1985, epic defaulted on the mortgages and the insurers were left holding the bag
besides tmic, two other major mortgage insurers had large liabilities when epic collapsed: mgic investment corp., a unit of milwaukee-based northwestern mutual life insurance co., and republic mortgage insurace, a unit of chicago-based old republic international corp
officials of mgic and republic said their companies were continuing payments under the epic plan
epic, which was based in falls church, va., was the real-estate investment arm of community savings &amp; loan association of bethesda, md. in 1986, community sought chapter 11 protection from creditors and subsequently was acquired by mellon bank of pittsburgh, pa
the stock market gave ground in late trading thursday as traders apparently shied away from the 2,000 level in the dow jones industrial average
dow jones's average of 30 blue chips dropped 14.58 to 1,986.41 after closing slightly above 2,000 in the week's first two sessions
declines outnumbered advances by about 7 to 6 among new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 688 up, 813 down and 478 unchanged
big board volume totaled 151.43 million shares, against 176.83 million in the previous session
analysts said there was little in the economic news to prompt traders to take big positions either way
the market rallied last week and monday as some of investors' worst fears about the business outlook eased
but expectations for economic growth and corporate profits remain subdued, and many market participants were evidently reluctant to buy stocks with the dow hovering around the 2,000 level
speculation has also died down lately that the federal reserve will take any new steps in the immediate future to relax its credit policy
not everyone was entirely cool to the market, however. charles clough, chief investment strategist at merrill lynch, recommended that investors move some money from bonds into stocks, citing evidence of strength in the manufacturing economy, among other things
he suggested that they have 50 percent of their money in stocks, 40 percent in bonds and 10 percent in money market investments, compared with a previous recommendation of 45 percent stocks, 45 percent bonds and 10 percent ``cash.''
hewlett-packard was a standout gainer among the blue-chip and technology issues, rising 2 to 59{. the company reported earnings for its fiscal quarter ended jan. 31 of 71 cents a share, up from 45 cents in the comparable period a year earlier
by contrast, ford motor fell 2\ to 42\. the company reported fourth-quarter earnings of $1.87 a share, up from $1.50 in the last quarter of 1986
lomas &amp; nettleton financial fell 1] to 15\ on top of a 1[-point drop wednesday, when the company said it would take a charge of about $93 million in the current quarter in connection with moves to cease its homebuilding operations and restructure its mortgage banking division
rorer group jumped 4| to 58. the company said it hadn't been approached by anyone with a merger or acquisition proposal
as measured by wilshire associates' index of more than 5,000 actively traded stocks, the market lost $10.31 billion, or 0.40 percent, in value
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks dropped .58 to 145.14
nationwide turnover in nyse-listed issues, including trades in those stocks on regional exchanges and in the over-the-counter market, totaled 175.83 million shares
standard &amp; poor's index of 400 industrials fell 1.61 to 296.98, and s&amp;p's 500-stock composite index was down 1.30 at 257.91
the nasdaq composite index for the over-the-counter market edged up .35 to 355.63. at the american stock exchange, the market value index closed at 277.92, down 1.17
the dollar staged an unusual turnaround thursday, closing mostly lower in europe but rising domestically on technical factors and president reagan's statement that he wants to rescue a kidnap victim in lebanon
gold prices were mostly lower. republic national bank of new york reported a late bid for gold of $442.80 a troy ounce, down from wednesday's late bid of $446.00
in european trading, the dollar finished lower against all major currencies except the canadian dollar, with little news to affect trading
traders sold dollars in anticipation the u.s. currency would fall through certain technical levels. but when the dollar failed to cross those points, dealers had to buy back dollars to cover their positions, pushing the currency higher in u.s. activity, traders said
the markets weren't going anywhere, and people needed to buy dollars back,'' said james o'neill, a vice president and financial market economist at marine midland bank
separately, traders said president reagan's statement that he wants to rescue marine lt. col. william r. higgins, who was kidnapped in lebanon, sparked sudden interest in the dollar
the prospects of the u.s. going in with forces to get the colonel out of lebanon adds fuel to the fire because in the case of war breaking out, the dollar is a safe haven,'' said joseph cally, a trader at prudential-bache securities inc
earlier, in tokyo, the dollar closed at 130.00 japanese yen, down from 130.41. in london late thursday, the dollar traded lower at 129.72. later in new york, the dollar rose to 130.375 yen from 130.125 yen wednesday
in london, one british pound cost $1.7508 late thursday, more expensive for buyers than wednesday's late $1.7490. in new york, it cost $1.74175 to buy one pound, cheaper than wednesday' $1.75415
other late dollar rates in new york, compared with wednesday's late rates, included: 1.71225 west german marks, up from 1.7010; 1.40965 swiss francs, up from 1.3995; 5.7870 french francs, up from 5.7395; 1,261.00 italian lire, up from 1,253.50, and 1.27055 canadian dollars, up from 1.2673
other dollar rates in europe late thursday, compared with wednesday's late rates, included: 1.7040 west german marks, down from 1.7065; 1.4010 swiss francs, down from 1.4030; 5.7555 french francs, down from 5.7635; 1.9130 dutch guilders, down from 1.9190; 1,254.625 italian lire, down from 1,258.75; 1.2690 canadian dollars, up from 1.2656
gold bullion prices were mostly lower. the late bid price in london was $444 a troy ounce, down from 446.00, but it was higher in zurich at $447.50 bid, up from $446.00. hong kong financial markets were closed for the chinese new year holiday
on the new york commodity exchange, gold closed at $442.90 a troy ounce, down from $446 wednesday
silver bullion traded late in london at $6.43 bid a troy ounce, up from $6.42. on the comex, silver closed at $6.335 a troy ounce, down from $6.43 wednesday
livestock futures plummeted the limit allowed for daily trading thursday in a wave of profit-taking apparently prompted by weak demand for beef and pork products
futures prices also fell on most other commodity markets. precious metals, copper, grains and soybeans, energy futures and stock-index futures all retreated
the commodity research bureau index, a measure of the performance of 21 commodities, fell 2.07 points, a fairly large move for the indicator
livestock and meat traders on the chicago mercantile exchange had been ignoring the weakening cash markets for beef and pork products, but their attitude changed abruptly on thursday, analysts said
we've had a horrible beef market for three weeks and it never bothered anybody. today it started bothering everybody,'' said charlie richardson, an analyst in denver for lind-waldock &amp; co
we had people start to take profits, and later in the day everybody decided they wanted out,'' richardson said
analysts said there had been no change in market fundamentals
the profit-taking kind of fed on itself,'' said roger norem, an analyst for agri-visor services inc. in bloomington, ill. ``we had quite a few orders to get out of long (buy) positions at the close, and that carried over into the pork complex.''
the selling caused limit-down moves of 1.50 cents a pound in some live cattle, feeder cattle and hog contracts and 2 cents a pound in some contracts for future delivery of frozen pork bellies
live cattle settled .53 cent to 1.50 cents lower with the february contract, which expires friday, at 71.27 cents a pound; feeder cattle were .10 cent to 1.50 cents lower with march at 82.50 cents a pound; hogs were .48 cent to 1.50 cents lower with february at 46.20 cents a pound; frozen pork bellies were .60 cent to 2.00 cents lower with february at 53.70 cents a pound
gold and silver futures registered substantial declines on the commodity exchange in new york after gold for april delivery passed the psychologically important level of $450 a troy ounce only to encounter strong resistance at $451.40, analysts said
the subsequent price decline was ``a very typical reaction to a market that breaks out and fails to follow through,'' said craig sloane, an analyst in new york for smith barney, harris upham &amp; co
gold settled $3.10 to $3.50 lower with april at $445.80 a troy ounce; silver was 9.5 cents to 10 cents lower with march at $6.35 a troy ounce
copper futures fell sharply on the comex, with the march contract settling 5.75 cents lower at 98.75 cents a pound
grain and soybean futures settled mostly lower in a modest sell-off on the chicago board of trade
soybeans led the decline in reaction to reduced demand for soybean meal, analysts said. many traders also took profits after wednesday's sharp advance in soybean futures, analysts said
increased farmer selling of soybeans also pressured futures prices, but the losses were limited by news of new soybean oil sales to india and expectations for more export business, said richard loewy, an analyst in new york for prudential-bache securities inc
based on the profit-taking which could have ensued, you're still looking at good underlying strength'' in the soybean market, loewy said
corn prices followed soybeans lower, while wheat prices retreated on expectations of adequate near-term supplies, he said
wheat settled 1{ cent to 6 cents lower with march at $3.21} a bushel; corn was unchanged to 1{ cents lower with march at $2.00} a bushel; oats were \ cent lower to \ cent higher with march at $1.91} a bushel; soybeans were 4 cents to 6 cents lower with march at $6.28{ a bushel
unleaded gasoline led energy futures prices lower on the new york mercantile exchange
jim ritterbusch of painewebber inc. said crude oil supplies were abundant while demand for gasoline and heating oil was weak
west texas intermediate crude oil settled .13 cent to .19 cent lower with march at $16.45 a barrel; heating oil was .50 cent to .73 cent lower with march at 45.08 cents a gallon; unleaded gasoline was .69 cent to 1.30 cents lower with march at 45.97 a gallon
stock-index futures retreated on the chicago mercantile exchange, where the contract for march delivery of the standard &amp; poor's 500 index settled 1.55 points lower at 258.30. the underlying spot index was up 1.30 points at 257.91. with m2 and m3 figures. picks up 6th graf pvs, the fed...</note>
the nation's basic money supply fell by $3.4 billion in mid-february, the federal reserve board reported thursday
the fed said the measure of money known as m1 fell to a seasonally adjusted $760.7 billion in the week ended feb. 8 from $764.1 billion the previous week. m1 includes cash in circulation, deposits in checking accounts and non-bank travelers checks
for the latest 13 weeks, m1 averaged $754.7 billion, a 1.9 percent seasonally adjusted annual rate of gain from the previous 13 weeks
analysts said the latest figure was within the range expected by a number of economists, and as such had little effect on the bond market
the fed last year stopped setting a specific growth target range for m1 because of doubts that the measurement accurately reflected underlying economic activity. instead, the fed indicated, it was more closely monitoring broader monetary aggregates known as m2 and m3, exchange rates and other economic indicators
on thursday, the fed began reporting m2 and m3 on a weekly instead of monthly basis. m2 fell $1.8 billion in the week ended feb. 8 to a seasonally-adjusted $2.94 trillion, and m3 fell $2.1 billion to an adjusted $3.712 trillion
m2 is made up of m1 and such accounts as savings deposits and money-market mutual funds. m3 is the sum of m2 plus less-liquid accounts, such as certificates of deposit in minimum denominations of $100,000
the fed on thursday also released its benchmark revisions to the monetary aggregates for 1987
the central bank said m1 growth in 1987 was 6.2 percent, revised from 5.9 percent; m2 growth was 4.0 percent, revised from 4.1 percent, and m3 growth was unrevised at 5.4 percent
the fed had set a growth target range of 5.5 percent to 8.5 percent for m2 and m3. the actual growth was the slowest in those aggregates since the fed began targeting growth in 1979
in other reports:
_the federal reserve bank of new york reported commercial and industrial loans at major new york city banks fell $368 million in the week ended feb. 10, compared with a gain of $87 million a week earlier
_the federal reserve said discount window bank borrowings from the federal reserve system averaged $254 million daily in the week ended wednesday, up from $118 million during the previous week
_the federal reserve bank of st. louis reported that the monetary base, the seasonally adjusted total of member bank reserves held at federal reserve banks and cash in bank vaults and in circulation, was $272.4 billion in the two-week period ended feb. 10, down from $272.9 billion two weeks earlier
the farm credit system said it earned a profit of $179 million in the final quarter of 1987, but posted a loss for the full year in spite of a big reduction in its reserve for loan losses
the loss of $17 million for all of 1987 was a fraction of the losses of $2.7 billion in 1985 and $1.9 billion in 1986
the farm credit system said its interest income fell because of competition from other lenders and a general decline in the demand for agricultural loans. on the positive side, the system said it was able to reduce the amount of money set aside for possible loan losses because of ``continued improvement in the general agricultural economy and the increased capacity of farmers and ranchers to service their debt.''
loan-loss reserves were decreased by $684 million during the year, to $2.95 billion at the end of 1987 from $3.64 billion at the end of 1986
the farm credit system is a 71-year-old group of 37 banking cooperatives and nearly 400 local lending associations. it was hit hard by weakness in the agricultural economy
bailout legislation signed into law last year created a private assistance corporation that is authorized to issue up to $4 billion in government-backed loans to financially troubled institutions in the system
interest on the loans will be paid initially by the government, although the farm credit system would eventually pay everything back
the farm credit system said its profit of $179 million in the fourth quarter came on total interest income of $1.46 billion. in the year-earlier period, the system had a loss of $384 million on total interest income of $1.65 billion
in all of 1987, the farm credit system's loss of $17 million came on total interest income of $5.78 billion, in contrast to a year-earlier loss of $1.91 billion on total interest income of $7.17 billion
the strong fourth-quarter results are not indicative of expectations for 1988, the farm credit system said, because they include a chunk of interest income from previous periods that was not previously recorded
the results were also boosted by one-time reductions in loan-loss provisions
the reduction in the provision for loan losses, partly offset by some actual losses, added $207 million to the system's bottom line in the fourth quarter and added $196 million to the bottom line in all of 1987
in contrast, new provision for loan losses had subtracted $356 million from the bottom line in the fourth quarter of 1986 and subtracted $1.80 billion from the bottom line in all of 1986
price waterhouse, the system's independent accountants, issued an opinion on the statement that was qualified because of questions surrounding the implementation of the federal bailout
the successful and timely implementation of the 1987 act is dependent on several factors, many of which are outside the control of the system,'' the farm credit system said in a news release
the teamsters union is girding for a worldwide strike against pan am corp. on sunday, but some travel agents say the troubled airline's incentives will keep passengers lining up at the gate
in formally announcing strike plans at a press conference thursday, william genoese, director of the union's airline division, promised a ``traditional type'' of teamster walkout
separately, the airline announced it lost $265.3 million last year, compared with a $462.8 million loss the previous year. the airline, which earlier estimated it lost $90 million last year, reiterated in the earnings statement its pledge to remain fully operational in the event of a strike
genoese said there is enough support for pan am local 732 among other teamsters locals to cut off the airline's supplies of fuel, laundry and liquor around the world. and he added that there will be violence ``if the company provokes violence.''
the strike is set to begin at 12:01 a.m. est sunday, the end of a federally mandated 30-day cooling-off period in the labor dispute
several travel agents polled thursday said the public is barely aware of the conflict, which centers on the teamsters' demand for higher pay and the airline's call for belt-tightening
the 4,500-member pan am teamsters local represents passenger reservation clerks, customer service employees and workers who fuel planes
thomas g. plaskett, pan am's new chairman, told union members in a letter earlier this month that in the event of a strike, the airline ``can and will hire someone to provide the services you withhold.''
pan am spokeswoman pamela hanlon said the carrier already has recruited potential replacement employees and trained managers within the company to perform some of the teamsters' clerical functions
the teamsters have yet to receive a show of support from pan am's four other unions. jim gannon, a spokesman for the 5,000-member transport workers union, said members voted unanimously thursday against supporting the teamsters
and a spokesman for the airline's flight engineers said members were advised to ``continue with their work assignments.'' the pilots and flight attendants unions also are not expected to support the teamsters
the pilots, flight attendants and engineers already have accepted labor concessions in an effort to ensure pan am's financial recovery
herbert teison, of travel smart for business in dobbs ferry, n.y., said most travelers ``don't even know about the strike.''
and jack bloch, president of jb's world travel in new york, said he hasn't seen any cancellations yet. ``their frequent-flier program, their special fares that are lower than most other carriers and their triple mileage offer keeps people choosing money over service,'' he said
pan am had no comment on a teamsters claim that the carrier has begun installing armed guards throughout its facilities at new york's john f. kennedy international airport, the airline's main hub
obviously security is a top priority,'' hanlon said. ``we are making preparations to deal with it, but we won't disclose what they may be.''
genoese said the hiring of the guards was a provocation that by itself could spark violence among members
the teamsters, pan am and meredith buel, a spokesman for the national mediation board in washington, d.c., acknowledge that negotiations are still going on. but genoese said no progress has been made and he remains pessimistic
picketing is expected to begin sunday morning, and several rallies have been scheduled at hotels near jfk airport
our people are all positioned, they have signs and they know where to go,'' said frank bertucelli, business representative for local 732
pan am, which operates pan american world airways inc., a northeast air shuttle and other services, needs labor concessions totaling around $540 million over three years to ensure its survival, analysts and company sources estimate
the teamsters say they have offered $75 million in concessions over the next three years. pan am has sought an 8 percent wage cut per year, work rule changes and revisions to its health care plan
the teamsters claim that the give-backs amount to a 15 percent to 17 percent wage cut for members, who make an average $480 a week and have not received a raise since 1981
last month plaskett last month rejected an offer from the national mediation board to arbitrate the contract dispute with the teamsters
by rejecting arbitration, plaskett set in motion a federally mandated 30- day ``cooling-off'' period between the two sides. at the end of that time, pan am would be free to impose its demands on the union, which in turn would be free to strike
gov. william donald schaefer signed into law thursday bills giving top corporate officials greater protection from lawsuits filed by disgruntled stockholders
schaefer had sought the legislation to enhance the state's business climate and to prevent some maryland-based companies from moving their headquarters to neighboring states that offer such protection to officers and directors
as of jan. 1, some 35 states had enacted laws offering some degree of immunity from stockholder suits and are actively using such laws to sell their states to companies considering reincorporation, said alan rifkin, schaefer's top legislative aide
this says something to business,'' schaefer said as he signed two identical bills passed at morning sessions of both the house and senate
it says we're interested in working together for the good of the state,'' he said
the measures are specifically aimed at lawsuits brought by stockholders who believe a business decision by an officer or director was responsible for a drop in the value of a company's stock
business leaders strongly supported the measures, telling lawmakers that skyrocketing liability insurance premiums have made it increasingly difficult to attract quality business people to serve on boards of directors
the schaefer administration introduced a bill for the same purpose last year, but it was rejected by the house judiciary committee, reportedly because 1987's version did not give stockholders the right to reject such immunity for its officers and directors
the bill signed thursday requires formal ratification of the immunity provision by stockholders. the law also specifies that such protection does not apply to lawsuits brought by third parties
under the new law, which went into effect immediately after schaefer signed the bills, such immunity is lost when an officer or director receives an improper financial benefit or in cases involving deliberate dishonesty by a top corporate official
the reagan administration, proposing a $1.1 trillion federal budget on thursday, predicted the economy would continue to grow without threat of recession
in other economic news, the federal reserve said the nation's industrial operating rate was unchanged in january at 82.2 percent of capacity, remaining at the highest level in almost eight years
in the financial markets, the stock market gave ground in late trading thursday and the dow jones average of 30 industrials dropped below 2,000, falling 14.58 to 1,986.41. bond prices and the dollar edged higher
in its 1989 budget request, the administration foresaw no storm clouds on the economic horizon, contending growth would slow during the first half of 1988 but then rebound to robust levels in 1989 and beyond
the administration's economic forecasts, which provide the underpinning for its assumptions on revenues and spending in the budget, have been attacked in the past as rosy scenarios which bore little resemblance to reality
but this year's version was greeted with less skepticism, although it was still more optimistic than the outlook prepared by the congressional budget office and most private economists
in the last couple of years, the administration has lightened the tint on their rose-colored glasses although their outlook is still a lot rosier than we think is justified,'' said david wyss, an economist with data resources inc., an economic forecasting firm
the administration derided as greatly exaggerated recession fears stirred by the record 508-point drop in the new york stock exchange's dow jones industrial average on oct. 19 and contended the economy had escaped with ``few signs of serious damage.''
the administration predicted the gross national product, the total output of goods and services, would expand at a modest rate of 2.4 percent this year, down from 3.8 percent growth in 1987, when measured from the fourth quarter of 1986
congressional analysts are forecasting lower growth of 1.8 percent in 1988 and wyss said data resources has just scaled back its own gnp forecast to 1.4 percent, a full percentage point below the administration
in the capacity utilization report, the federal reserve said cutbacks in the production of steel and autos offset gains in other areas, the government reported thursday
the january operating rate remained at the highest level in almost eight years, but it was the first month since september that the operating rate had failed to move up
international business machines corp., which has assembled an ensemble of actors from the ``m-a-s-h'' television series for its advertising, said thursday it has signed the star of that popular program
ibm said that alan alda, who starred as hawkeye pierce in ``m-a-s-h,'' signed a multiyear agreement earlier this month to appear in commercials for the computer and office systems giant
the company declined to disclose how much alda was being paid
the first ads featuring alda will appear saturday during abc-tv's olympics broadcasts, ibm said. he will initially appear alone in ibm ads
in one commercial, alda paddles about a flooded office and describes how an ibm service team worked without stop to restore a customer's computer operations
he says ibm can help customers face the future in another ad, and describes in a third commercial how the company can help businesses of all sizes
dave mcgovern, an advertising executive for ibm, said the company eventually plans to work alda into ads that feature other former members of the ``m-a-s-h'' cast
ibm launched advertising for its new family of personal system 2 computers featuring seven former ``m-a-s-h'' cast members last april, including gary burghoff who played radar o'reilly, harry morgan who was col. sherman potter and loretta swit who played hot lips houlihan. for ibm, they played the roles of co-workers in an office
conspicuously absent from that group was alda, who reportedly was still under contract to another computer company, atari corp
mcgovern said ibm had been interested in having alda appear in its ads for some time, but that alda had other commitments that were preventing it
a call was placed to alda's agent, but was not returned
mcgovern said alda continues to be widely recognized and is well liked by the public although the ``m-a-s-h'' program creators and actors have disbanded and the show has gone into reruns
he said alda has done little advertising and said his appearances for atari occurred five years ago and should not diminish his effectiveness for ibm
you don't have a sense that he is saying anything he doesn't believe in,'' said barry hoffman, a creative director for the ad agency lord, geller, federico, einstein inc., which created the ibm ads
mcgovern said the ads using the former ``m-a-s-h'' actors have scored better than the industry average with the public
ibm has said that it did not set out to reassemble the ``m-a-s-h'' cast for its ads. among those from that program who are missing from the ibm ensemble are mclean stevenson, who played col. henry blake
mcgovern declined to speculate on whether any new characters would be added to the ibm ads. ``stay tuned for further developments,'' he said
pan am corp. said thursday it lost $245.5 million in the 1987 fourth quarter and $265.3 million for the year, blaming the results on labor costs, poor marketing, uncollectable bills and the airline's frequent-flier program
at the same time, usair group inc., one of the nation's fastest-growing airlines, reported slightly lower fourth-quarter earnings but record earnings for the year, during which it acquired two other carriers
pan am's losses, reported against a background of labor-management feuding, an executive shakeup and an impending strike this weekend, bring the venerable airline company's losses to more than $883 million in the past four years
the quarterly loss was 24 percent higher than the $197.5 million loss in the same quarter of 1986, although the yearly loss was about 43 percent lower than the 1986 loss of $462.8 million. still, pan am officials expressed alarm
last year's results are terribly disappointing for the company,'' said thomas g. plaskett, who was elected chairman of pan am last month
a loss of this magnitude underscores the urgent need for pan am to lower its current operating costs and revitalize its marketing and revenue-generating programs,'' plaskett said in a statement
fourth-quarter revenues totaled $877.1 million, up 9.8 percent from $798.6 million in the same quarter of 1986. for the year, revenues totaled $3.59 billion, up 18.2 percent from $3.04 billion in 1986
aside from blaming labor costs, which are among the highest in the industry, pan am said the losses last year were aggravated by $42 million in ``increased allowances for inventory obsolescence, uncollectible receivables, and costs associated with the worldpass frequent-flier program.''
such programs, offered by all major carriers, attempt to gain repeat customers by offering them free trips after they fly a certain number of miles. usair group said its 1987 fourth-quarter earnings totaled $26.7 million or 62 cents a share, a 16.6 percent drop from the $32 million or $1.06 a share reported a year earlier. the company had 43.19 million shares outstanding in the 1987 quarter vs. 31.73 million a year earlier
quarterly revenues totaled $1.12 billion, more than double the $483.38 million reported a year earlier
for all of 1987, usair said it earned a record $194.64 million or $5.28 a share, nearly double the $98.35 million or $3.34 a share earned in 1986. revenues totaled a record $3 billion vs. $1.83 billion, a 63.5 percent gain
usair group is an airline holding company that includes usair, pacific southwest airlines and piedmont aviation. psa was acquired in may 1987 and piedmont was purchased in november 1987
the company said its financial statement reflected the consolidated results of all three airlines for the months following the acquisitions, as well as usair's equity stake in piedmont prior to the completion of that acquisition. less for defense</head> expand on relationship of deficit numbers to gramm-rudman law; also moved on general newswires</note>
president reagan proposed thursday his smallest pentagon increase but sharply higher spending for aids research and airline safety in a $1.1 trillion fiscal 1989 budget that was largely pre-ordained in a deal with congress
this budget does not fully reflect my priorities,'' the president said in his message accompanying the last spending plan he'll see through to completion. ``but ... abandoning the deficit reduction compromise would threaten our economic progress and burden future generations.''
the spending plan only hints of the ``reagan revolution'' years as it strives to comply with the administration's agreement with congressional leaders last november to reduce the federal deficit
the agreement set overall spending limits for domestic, military and foreign aid spending. reagan has already signed the tax increase required under the agreement, adding $14 billion to the treasury's receipts for next year
the president's plan envisions overall spending of $1.094 trillion, offset by $965 billion in receipts. that would leave a deficit of about $129.5 billion in the fiscal year beginning oct. 1, within the guidelines of the gramm-rudman, budget-balancing law and down from $150.4 billion last year and an estimated $146 billion this year
because of the agreement with congressional leaders, reagan was forced for the first time to submit a military budget that would not keep pace with inflation
restrained to $294 billion in outlays, up from $285.4 billion this year, the president proposed reducing the nation's active-duty forces and abandoning the goal of a 600-ship navy
servicemen and women would get a 4.3 percent pay increase, compared to 2 percent for other federal employees
on the domestic side of the ledger, the president requested new spending authority that he has resisted in the past but which congress would likely favor anyway in an election year, including:
_$1.3 billion for aids research, a 38 percent increase
_an increase of $1.5 billion, or 8 percent, on education
_a 13 percent boost, to $3.9 billion, for drug law enforcement and treatment programs
_$363 million to begin construction of the superconducting super collider, a huge new atomic research facility
_full funding for a $2.5 billion, five-year program to combat acid rain, and an increase in spending on hazardous waste cleanup
_a 44 percent increase, to $1.6 billion, for the federal aviation administration to modernize its air traffic control system
_$11.5 billion for space programs, including the manned space station and space shuttle improvements. the actual outlay would be $10.9 billion in 1989
but reagan offsets those increases by calling for an halt to amtrak and mass transit subsidies, ending urban development action grants, and eliminating the interstate commerce commission and economic development administration. in addition, government assets such as loan portfolios, the alaska power administration and the naval petroleum reserve would be sold
the president's budget director, james c. miller iii, told reporters that, even though congress has rejected many reagan budget proposals like asset sales in the past, he believed they would fare better this time
congress will have to come up with these additional savings one way or another,'' miller said, suggesting that the cuts outlined in reagan's budget might be ``the course of least resistance for congress.''
treasury secretary james a. baker iii said it was ``the intention of both the executive and legislative branches to honestly fulfill the terms of the budget agreement. it's a rather unique budget year.''
reagan said his budget reflected the give-and-take of last fall's budget ``summit.''
in presenting this budget, i am keeping my end of the bargain. i call upon congress to uphold its end,'' he said
house majority leader thomas s. foley, d-wash., said congress would live within the agreement but ``there is obviously room for setting priorities in a different way than the president's budget proposes.''
the deputy democratic leader in the house, tony coelho of california, was less generous. he said the failure to do more to tackle the deficit leaves ``an enormous problem to the next administration and to the next generation. it is a sad closing chapter to the failed story of reaganomics.''
the administration predicts that if its budget is adopted deficits would continue to retreat from the record levels earlier in reagan's term. when reagan took office in 1981, the annual deficit was $78 billion, and he promised to bring the budget into balance within three years. instead annual deficits nearly tripled by fiscal 1986
to stay below the $136 billion deficit target for fiscal 1989 in the gramm-rudman law, the budget includes $10 billion in revenue from selling government assets and other one-time receipts
but those sales aren't counted in gramm-rudman's calculations, because they are only temporary solutions. so the president technically failed to hit the $136 billion target, although not by the $10 billion margin that would trigger automatic spending cuts
the goals for future years are missed by the plan even by the president's own estimates
rep. dan rostenkowski, d-ill., chairman of the house ways and means committee, said he doubted either the white house or congress would face up to the continuing deficit problem this year. ``this is the year of the big wink,'' he said. ``i don't envy the president who will follow this administration because of the deficit he will inherit.''
the administration figures are based on projections that economic growth will continue undiminished by last fall's stock market collapse, and that inflation will ease
gnp growth will rebound in 1989 to a 3.5 percent rate and stay above 3 percent through 1993, according to the budget. consumer prices, which rose 4.4 percent last year, will rise by 4.3 percent this year. the jobless rate of 5.8 percent will hold steady, according to the budget
the forecast is more optimstic than that of the congressional budget office and private economists, but not so far out of line with them as in past years
the chairmen of the house and senate budget committees said they thought reagan's budget was more realistic than his past efforts
i think it's a good faith budget,'' said sen. lawton chiles, d-fla., chairman of the senate committee
what we're doing now is working together,'' said william h. gray iii, d-pa., the house chairman. ``the president and the congress compromised.''
sen. ernest f. hollings, d-s.c., a member of the budget committee and co-sponsor of the gramm-rudman law, said the administration's deficit projections might be too optimistic, but ``no one's going to talk about it.''
the administration said if growth was even one percentage point less than reagan's forecast, the deficit would rise an additional $6.3 billion in 1989 and $18 billion in 1990
but hollings predicted this year's battles will be over the details, not the overall thrust of the budget or its deficit-reduction goals
it's like tying two cats by the tail and throwing them over the clothesline,'' he said. ``there'll be a lot of small intramurals, but nothing really's going to happen.'' with nab response; inserts 2 grafs after 13th graf bgng: charren said ... to add mattel response. picks up 14th graf pvs bgng: markey said ...; also moved on general newswires</note>
children's television advocates in the house and senate introduced legislation thursday designed to rid the airwaves of programs that feature toy manufacturers' products as the central characters
children's tv has been grossly overcommercialized,'' said sen. howard metzenbaum, d-ohio, sponsor of the senate measure. ``you flip the dial and you'll find toys _ lady lovelylocks, thundercats, inhumanoids, gi joe _ all starring in their own shows.''
since the federal communications commission in 1984 scrapped its commercial limits on children's tv shows, at least 70 programs that critics call ``program-length commercials'' have appeared on television, he said
such programs are nothing more than ``sophisticated marketing strategies aimed at kids,'' he said
i just say that's absurd and it's wrong. the airwaves belong to the people of this country and they're being abused,'' he said at a news conference attended by other members of the house and senate and organized by action for children's television
the legislation was attacked by the national association of broadcasters, which called it ``anachronistic, unnecessary, inappropriate and ineffective,'' and said it raises first amendment questions
the nab said toy-based programs are not commercials and not subject to government regulation. ``does the federal government want to eliminate the disney, sesame street and charlie brown programs?'' nab said
metzenbaum's bill would restore the fcc's previous guidelines that limited ads on children's shows to 9{ minutes per hour on weekends and 12 minutes per hour on weekdays
a similar house bill also would reinstate the limits and in addition would require tv stations to provide seven hours per week of educational programming for young viewers
we can make children's television better,'' said rep. terry bruce, d-ill., who co-sponsored the house measure with reps. john bryant, d-texas, and edward markey, d-mass., chairman of the house telecommunications subcommittee
the fcc, in response to a federal appeals court ruling last june, is reviewing its children's tv policies and is considering whether ad limits are needed and whether toy-based shows constitute program-length commercials
but markey said congress will not wait for the fcc to act
the commission clearly has demonstrated that it cannot be trusted to protect children from commercial exploitation,'' said markey, who has crossed swords with the fcc over many broadcasting issues. ``when it comes to children's programming, this commission has never found an offensive practice that it did not like.''
charren said her group has been concerned for years that commercial considerations dominate programming decisions regarding children's tv, making it difficult to get stations to devote time to educational and informational shows for kids
spencer boise, a vice president of mattel inc., which makes a dozen different toys on which cartoon shows are based, said the programs are not commercials because the toys themselves are not shown and ads for the toys never appear during or adjacent to the program featuring the toy's cartoon character
it's an entertainment concept,'' he said. ``the characters are shown in cartoon or animated form, not static form like the toys.''
markey said the content of many of the toy-based programs for children would be classified as commercial time and, with ad limitations in place, would be driven off the air
there will be certain clear areas where it will be indisputably evident to all who witness it that a seamless fabric connecting commercials to program content has been developed,'' he said
we may reach some gray areas where there is a more open question, but clearly there is going to be an overwhelming consensus in the bulk of the areas ... that will be very difficult for anyone to deny that products are actually seeking to be promoted as part of the program content,'' he said
a former trw inc. executive entered a guilty plea to a charge of conspiracy to make false statements and submit false documents to the defense department, the justice department announced thursday
patrick m. mclaughlin, u.s. attorney for the northern district of ohio, said the government had alleged that richard e. kavicky, former financial manager of trw's compressor components division, conspired with other trw employees
u.s. district judge george w. white accepted the plea and allowed kavicky to remain free on personal bond pending completion of a pre-sentence report
last week, kavicky, 55, of wickliffe, ohio, agreed to cooperate with a federal investigation of trw's handling of federal contracts
president reagan proposed his smallest pentagon increase but sharply higher spending for aids research and airline safety in a $1.1 trillion fiscal 1989 budget
the spending plan revealed on thursday only hints of the ``reagan revolution'' years as it strives to comply with the administration's agreement with congressional leaders last november to reduce the federal deficit
president reagan's 1989 budget proposal calls for a 5 percent cut in agriculture spending, including sharp reductinos for two major rural development agencies
but the budget packaged unveiled thursday does not call for new legislation or cuts in most farm commodity programs. officials said the one major exception will be an administration attempt to overhaul the u.s. sugar program, which includes protective import quotas and price supports
president reagan asked congress for a new tax break to help parents finance a college education for their children
in a budget recommending only a few tax changes, reagan called thursday for requiring all state and local government employees to pay a tax for medicare coverage. he proposed a permanent tax benefit for owners of shares in mutual funds and an expanded break for independent oil producers
the reagan administration said the economy was shrugging off the impact of the october stock market collapse and would enjoy modest growth this presidential election year with no threat of a recession
in its 1989 budget request released thursday, the administration foresaw no storm clouds on the economic horizon, contending that growth would slow during the first half of 1988 but then rebound to robust levels in 1989 and beyond
the administration predicted the gross national product, the total output of goods and services, would expand at a modest rate of 2.4 percent this year, down from 3.8 percent growth in 1987, when measured from the fourth quarter of 1986
the nation's industrial operating rate was unchanged in january at 82.2 percent of capacity as cutbacks in the production of steel and autos offset gains in other areas
the january operating rate reported by the government thursday remained at the highest level in almost eight years, but it was the first month since september that the operating rate had failed to move up. some economists suggested this provided further evidence of an impending slowdown
ford motor co.'s earnings jumped 19 percent in the fourth quarter and 41 percent for all of 1987 as the no. 2 automaker outearned general motors corp. for the second straight year
the results announced thursday were good news to ford workers, who will earn record profit-sharing checks, but some experts on wall street had expected even better earnings from the company
after the earnings announcement, ford's stock fell, finishing down $2.25 per share to $42.25 on the new york stock exchange
a majority of striking employees at ford motor co.'s british plants voted to accept a two-year contract offer, signaling the end of the country's first major industrial strike in three years
the offer represented the first significant union victory in britain in seven years. ford made several concessions to end the strike, which began feb. 8
voter returns thursday night showed 70 percent of the workers at the 22 british plants favored the offer. the company said it expected workers to be back on the job monday
texaco inc. plans to sell a stake of about 50 percent in its extensive u.s. gulf coast refining operations to saudi arabia for more than $1 billion, according to published reports
a final agreement between petromin, the saudi arabian oil holding arm, and texaco is expected to be reached within a month, the herald tribune reported thursday, quoting an unidentified texaco executive and unidentified arab oil executives attending an annual conference of the institute of petroleum in london
in white plains, n.y., a spokesman at texaco's headquarters refused to confirm or deny the accuracy of the report
american standard inc.'s board of directors approved a multibillion-dollar recapitalization plan, escalating the company's battle to thwart the hostile $2.03 billion takeover bid by black &amp; decker corp
the plan approved thursday would pay american standard stockholders $64 a share in cash and junk bonds and give them stock in the recapitalized company, which would take on a staggering new debt load to finance the proposal
american standard shares rose 50 cents to $67.50 and black &amp; decker dipped 12{ cents to $18.87{ on the new york stock exchange
severe insider-trading penalties are damaging new cases by discouraging potential defendants from cooperating, a top official of the securities and exchange commission was quoted as saying
gary lynch, sec enforcement director and one of the architects behind a campaign against wall street corruption, was quoted as saying in a television interview that the prospect of imprisonment, civil fines and financial ruin is convincing some people ``it's better to hunker down than cooperate.'' his remarks were to be broadcast sunday on ``the wall street journal report.''
federal regulators have ordered an immediate suspension of the use of an industrial device which has leaked tiny particles of radioactive polonium at plants around the nation
the nuclear regulatory commission also ordered the 3m corp. on thursday to recall for inspection all 45,000 of the suspect devices, ionizing air guns used to control static electricity and remove dust from product containers
stocks declined in late trading thursday. the dow jones industrial average dropped 14.58 points to 1,986.41 after closing slightly above 2,000 in the week's first two sessions
bond prices rose in reaction to falling commodity prices. the dollar closed lower in europe but higher in the united states. gold prices were mostly down
southland corp. officials said thursday they have reached an agreement to sell the dallas-based company's dairies group to morningstar foods inc. for an undisclosed amount
the purchase by morningstar, an affiliate of houston-based private investment firm duncan, cook &amp; co., will include 10 regional dairies located throughout the united states, comprising 25 plants and related distribution points
morningstar expects to retain substantially all dairies group employees. also, the dairies will continue to operate under their own recognized brand names, including adohr farms, bancroft, cabell's, embassy, high's, merritt foods, oak farms, specialty products, velda farms and wanzer
the sale of the dairies group is one of several previously announced in connection with the december 1987 leveraged buyout of southland by jt acquisition corp., an affiliate of thompson co., the investment firm of southland's founding family
in a leveraged buyout, the purchaser puts up as collateral money that will be generated from the sale of the target company's assets
in addition to the recently completed sale of 270 7-eleven stores in houston, southland has reached agreements to sell its chief auto parts, moviequik videocassette rental and tidel systems operations and 21 7-eleven stores in missouri
the company also plans to divest its reddy ice, snack foods and chemical-food labs divisions and about 700 other convenience stores
the dairies group has played an important role in southland's growth and the success of our 7-eleven stores since 1936, when the oak farms dairy was founded in dallas,'' said jere thompson, president of southland
southland is the nation's largest convenience retailer, with 8,000 7-eleven and other convenience stores supported by five southland distribution centers and six southland foods division food centers
